what if I tell you that you can build a
house price prediction model and still
be in the top 1% of the data science
community and back a classy data science
job I mean that sounds too good to be
true right but it's actually true most
of the people say that go with a better
idea everybody builds house price
prediction model but in this video I'll
show you that how you can take a
simplest project idea but with the
implementation you can make it better
than even the one which has the best
idea out there we will build an entire
end to-end machine learning pipeline all
the way starting from core ml to
integrating mlops principles like cicd
experiment tracking monitoring and much
more but Frankly Speaking the 99% of the
people what do they do they simply go
ahead take the data set import it and
then probably do some Eda just by sake
of doing it and once they have some sort
of nice sexy graphics and all those
things they simply go ahead and then do
some processing which is written by
so-called gurus on YouTube and then they
simply create the project by call
fit and then they call predict and
that's where the end of the project
means so even if you take the sexiest
idea of your time you cannot really have
that in your portfolio or be in the top
1% despite having the nice idea it's all
about the implementation so what we will
do differently into this process there
are two aspects of it one is core ML and
another one is melops principle in core
ml will'll entirely focus on first of
all understanding data because when I
was working in one of my company one of
my manager told me that there's no point
in doing data science if you do not
spend your most of your time in working
on the data so we'll spend most amount
of time in working on the data
understanding the data I'll guide you
through my thinking and decision process
of why we are making such decisions or
analysis and based on those analysis we
will interpret those things in order to
know what can be issues what can be
things to be done what sort of algorithm
to choose and if we choose those
algorithm how do we verify whether that
data fits for the algorithm which is
known as assumptions testing and
violation and much more into the core ml
part into the mlops principle we'll
integrate cicd pipelines deployment
using ml flow for experiment tracking
using Zen ml for orchestration and all
those things and this one important
factor which we'll also focus on is
writing better code because nowadays all
the people right now in the community
they do not follow the right coding
standards or the principles or the
architectures out there we'll make use
of design patterns to write code and to
actually use the right set of patterns
in order to implement such scenarios and
all of this which is cor ml mlops
principles and using the right design
patterns into the project and writing
better code would make this the project
the top 1% and to be honest our several
students just got their first job by
just doing this so this is the project
which is a testament of implementing it
right no matter what the idea is so
let's get started with the project hi
everyone so we are finally going to
start our uh series on building end to
end prediction system systems models
using mlops and core ml things so the
first project which we are going to
start with is an amazing project and
which you all are aware of is basic
house price prediction but the whole
point of this project is to
differentiate you so how can a simple
project like house price prediction
which most of the instructors on YouTube
and stuff like that are teaching on
Jupiter and stuff like that how can we
make it a top differentiator and get you
in the top 1% just by working onto this
simple project idea the whole motto for
this project is to make you believe what
matters is the implementation of the
project not the idea but of course idea
matters at some extent but even the
simplest idea can be imple implemented
in such a way that will even defeat the
top guys so let's let's go ahead and
tell you a little bit more about the
project I don't need to explain about
the idea too much so I'll just skim
through it as much as I can can and
possibly I will tell you a little bit
more about uh the plans the how are we
going to structure this project so the
first thing is I'm not going to code it
entirely so it's like that I'll make
sure that I get you each and everything
implemented however there will be some
parts of it will be working as kind of
that you should experiment by your own
and you should do it by your own which
in which will involveed as part of an
assignment system also so uh around two
to three kind of code code lines or code
blocks will be left for you guys to do
and experiment it out by yourself apart
from it we'll be also not um doing live
coding because live coding into this I
wanted it to more explaining things
rather than writing and reading the code
so my most of the time will go into
explaining the code we explain the
concept behind it explaining the theory
behind the code and so that you easily
understand why there's the matter of the
fact over there is so the first thing is
which I want to tell you that what this
project is focused on so this project is
focused on building an endtoend machine
learning pipeline for a house price
prediction system so uh house price is
that we will be given set of features
we'll be G giving set of information
about a particular house we need to
predict what will be the possibly price
of the house so that is the system which
we want to build but in a differentiated
way so we will uh I hope that you are
already aware about pipeline Stacks
because we we already learned a lot
about this into our mlops fundamental
thing so I'm not going to go deep into
it but because we have already done
something with zenel we'll be utilizing
ziml which is an orchestrator emops
framework the reason why I love ziml is
not because of uh me being any relation
or past relation with ziml as a team but
also it because it is very easy to use
tool and it seamlessly integrates
several other mlops tool in order to
build the full stack of it that's why I
love using it and it is relatively easy
to understand and very easy simple code
sort of in Python to write also so it's
an mlops framework that will help us to
manage our machine learning workflows
that okay after this step we'll be
implementing this step so you learn a
lot about the steps and stacks pipelines
stuff like that in zml when we actually
go ahead in the coding stuff and then
we'll be using mlflow so mlflow is one
of the Integrations of Zen ml2 so where
will be using that in order to track our
EXP experiments because we'll be doing
several experiments by doing this or
doing that so we'll be using that to
track our experiments and also we will
use that to deploy our model so if you
have already seen our fundamentals
project over there we have we're having
the customer satisfaction thing in the
customer satisfaction we also used ml
flow to deploy the model so this will be
recreating of that same scene but
possibly in a different code and sort of
thing so that you know that how to use
MLF flow in different projects too so
that is the primary goal also so what is
this it is basically predicting house
prices based on several features but now
if you see the machine learning Paradigm
if you see data science Paradigm there a
lot of people actually doing this
project there are a lot of people who is
working onto this project so what
differentiates you what will
differentiate you into this particular
system now I'm going to stress out on
two matters on what currently people are
doing so there is very limited
exploration so what most people do is
they go ahead they start with the basic
exploratory data analysis using standard
Frameworks so the utmost what they can
do they will follow the Frameworks which
is listed on YouTube will they'll try to
copy and paste those Frameworks and they
do not make story out of it they do not
do anything they just plot images and
stuff like that that's it and then they
simply quick on they they simply do not
even look at those things and then
simply go ahead and call fit on a Model
without thoroughly understanding the
data data science is where data is an
integral part if you do not spend your
most of the time into it that means
you're not a data scientist and one of
my manager when I was working in one of
my company and she he was also director
of uh mlet M
IBM uh he told me that there's no point
in learning data science or machine
learning if you do not know how to work
with data or how to understand data so
we'll be spending a good amount of time
into it now another another people most
of most of the people do they simply
split the data train a model call
predict evaluate the model and they
often tends to achieve the high accuracy
and or minimizing any sort of error that
is their whole Moto but they don't
understand the fact that in an
organization looks for an overall robust
model and for sure that okay even if you
have 60% 70% accuracy that accuracy is
being maintained over the period of
samples so that is another problem which
I see another problem problem is once
the if the student has completed the
project and the model is trained that
they rarely revisit or improve based on
deeper insights from the data they do
not spend their time in validating
assumptions or handling uh uh violations
stuff of of the algorithm and stuff like
that so this is a major major problem
which I feel that do not
take I mean if uh if a lion eats a fresh
meat if you give to it he will die right
he will not eat so that is what uh into
the same example that if an algorithm
expects some sort of data you should
only give that data because that is the
assumption that if you give me this data
then only I'll work otherwise I won't so
that is another effort they do not put
an effort and we have also done a lot on
validating assumption our core stuff so
I want you to go ahead and look at it so
um we'll be doing all of this but what
we'll be doing is again what I told that
Toro data research we'll spend a very
bit of time into understanding our data
and we'll try to uh see if we can
possibly use that to make a storyline
and based on the storyline how do we
make decisions to go ahead and build our
models on top of it apart from it we'll
not just be training a model we'll not
just you know uh training a set of
predict do fait and stuff like that
we'll be also doing that but also we'll
ensure that we are not going ahead in uh
just core ml thing we are also ensuring
the assumptions so refining it
iteratively and also implementing robust
pipeline which is reproducible and
Deployable so which is an mlops
integration to it and that will make the
project the top 1% project ever created
and I feel This House Press prediction
will be ever uh being created on for
students to actually see how it can be
done
differently and what I told that we'll
differentiate project integrating mlops
practices using zml and mlflow will
Implement cicd pipelines to automate
testing deployment of the model in the
production so U there will be several
tasks like that you have to take the API
you have to integrate with this
streamlet you have to also test other
assumptions because I've not tested all
assumptions few assumptions were tested
to make sure that it works but there are
several other assumptions to test
several other models to try but one
thing I want you to know for this
project is that we'll be only utilizing
only one algorithm for this project we
do not we'll be not switching the
algorithms out there however there will
be tasks for you to implement other
algorithms and then intelligently switch
between algorithms and then use that it
is pretty easy so uh we'll be utilizing
because our main focus is that I want
you to know that how can the project be
implemented with a single algorithm with
a core Basics and also being even the
simplest but even the powerful project
of your whole um project sorry portfolio
so I want you to take a look at this in
Greater detail and I if there there will
be lot of Errors for sure because mlops
is still has not matured enough to have
an have its own community so I want you
to be available in mlflow communities
ziml communities slack Community you can
also use pza to answer to to ask a
question if you're enrolling into the
course and try to see if you can
possibly uh get the answers of it but
envelops as I say is not matured enough
what does it really mean is that you do
not have the support systems ready you
do not have the support prot
practitioners ready into it so over here
you need to put in a lot of your mind
but eventually it works out you just
have to stick to it and make sure that
you do not go away or you know feel
depressed from
it so that is it about the project now
our next thing would be that we I will
tell you about a plan what exactly I'm
looking at the plan of this project how
I'm going to take how I'm going to take
this project from um Eda ingestion how
what are the source which which we're
going to have how are we going to deploy
the model so I'll tell you a little bit
about the plan and then we move it
further so let's meet in the next
lecture so now we will go ahead and then
I'll let you explore a little bit about
the project what exactly the project
folder looks like and how are we going
to move ahead and then I'll teach you
before we start anything we'll teach you
three design patterns which we will be
using a lot into this project because as
I say that I want to make it a very big
differentiated project and for that I
need to have this specific and proper uh
set of modules listed out here proper
set of documentation being done so all
those things will will be uh doing it so
first of all we will go ahead learn
little bit about the design patterns
like strategy template Factory and then
uh will we start with our project coding
step by step however there there will be
some of the stances where I'll State you
that you should do this by your own or
you should try this by your own so
please make sure that you note all of
these things down because as I say that
I'll be focusing more onto the
explanation part of it um and making
sure that you understand each and every
line of code in detail and my mindset
and The Thinking Beyond it so that is
the whole goal and uh I I uh I I also
like live coding but live coding into
this will not make sense to me so
probably my main focus into this project
will be to explain you each and every
details about the project and let you
explore things by your own too so let's
go ahead and then study a little bit
about our first thing what exactly we
are we we are going to
do so first of all we will always focus
on loading the data so any project you
should start with you should always
think about once you have the data
because I've taken it from kagle because
as I said it is a very simple project
which is house price prediction project
so the first step is that we how do we
ingest the data so most the people what
do they do you get the data in zip file
and then they go simply go ahead write a
function or probably in a jupyter
notebook they use pd. read CS first
unzip it and then they do the PD dot I
mean read CSV and then that's it we'll
use the different we'll do it very
differently and that's where very small
small things attract the recruiters or
interviewers to make you think okay this
guy has done something really
interesting while I don't want to go in
detail about what design patterns helps
how it helps and all those things but in
nutshell it's more about making your
code reproducible scalable
understandable and very easy to maintain
so that is why we use design pattern and
we'll be using one of the factory design
pattern to implement the ingestion
function or probably imp implement the
ingest data pipeline so before that
before we go into the code I want you to
know a little bit about Factory design
pattern so what is Factory design
pattern Factory design pattern is let's
say you have an coffee shop so you have
a coffee shop and customers can order
different types of coffees into it it
may be espresso it may be latte capucino
frappucino whatever it might be but the
process of making a coffee follows a
similar pattern that you want to put it
you want to put it of course let let's
say milk or skimmed milk or whatever you
put it I mean maybe some some some sort
of coffee powder so the process of
making those coffee follows a something
similar pattern except some of the
coffees so now you have a general coffee
making machine you don't have several
other coffee machines like lates coffee
machine capuco coffee machine or
frappucino coffee machine you just have
one simple General coffee making machine
that's what we call as a Factory and
then into that factory you make
different types of products or different
type of coffees which we named as
espresso latte or capucino so what we do
let's say that we want to code our thing
that we want to make a coffee machine
and in that coffee machine we'll be
having several other coffees out there
so I'm going to show you uh you can
simply go to the folder and click on
explanations and click on Factory design
pattern so over here I really hope
you're able to see this screen if not
I'm just going to zoom zoom in yep so
over here you we um I want you to if you
want to know more about the design
pattern I can come up with that course
too but it's just that you can just go
on YouTube there are a lot of courses
available on explaining about abstract
method op Concepts and all but in a nut
shet we first of all create a factory
which we call as a product interface or
the general machine so General machine
would be coffee and that coffee will
have one of the implementation which is
to prepare prepare the coffee so a
coffee machine will have one of this
function is to prepare it right so any
coffee let's say latte or espresso needs
to go through that preparation stage and
then only the coffee will be built uh so
in the same way a factory like a coffee
into this the name of the factory is
coffee will have its own um will will
contain the preparation stange tool now
once you have Factory you can extend
that factory to multiple product and use
that factory to create concrete products
create several products out there so
that is what class espresso and then
espresso will be built from what Factory
coffee factory because espresso is um
kind of a product which will be built in
the coffee factory and then we just imp
we just in implement the prepare so of
course it does not have any logic it
says preparing rich and strong espresso
so you simply uh on top of it you use
the prepar prepare method you can also
add multiple methods over here too if
there is any specificity needs to be
maintained same goes with latte uh which
in heads from coffee the prepare method
and then same goes with the capuccino
prepare now over here you make a actual
Factory class so actual coffee machine
so the coffee machine is with like
coffee machine and the make coffee and
what is the coffee type the coffee type
is espresso you just call espresso.
prepare espresso. prepare if if the
coffee type of course you see that we
are um using the coffee type so I'll
show you the usage too so it's more like
that we prepare the factory with
different different products so if the
coffee type is espresso you prepare the
espresso if the coffee type is latte you
prepare the latte and stuff like that
and then now here's what the usage of
the factory to create products so it it
is our Factory of course now you might
be confused it is our Factory or this is
our Factory in most of the cases this is
the practice practices practitioners
follow this is the interface which they
create but also I have seen people using
it directly from here but to create that
extensibility and readability they
actually create another Factory where
where this acts just like an interface
there's nothing else it's just an
interface that this is how it should
look like and then you implement those
interfaces for example into the design
you first of all have that
uh design thing ready and then the
developer goes and Implement by seeing
the interface the same way it happens
over here that you create an interface
first and then you probably go ahead and
create the concrete products or actually
develop it but yeah it totally depends
on you on how you want to extend it
further but the general practi is to
having this Factory sort of uh pattern
so the factory pattern will look like
this that you create a class now that
factory will have one of its preparation
stage too the preparation stage will
look like I want to make an coffee what
is the coffee type it it it expects the
coffee type in an you know input and
then whatever coffee type if there's no
coffee type then it returns an error so
if we in instantiate our uh class and
fact Factory class and then we start to
make coffees so we create a coffee and
then machine. make coffee which is
espresso we want to make espresso so
espresso is the type so it calls the
espresso uh cre product one of one one
of one of the product and then it calls
do prepare so if you see that we are
also calling do prepare method from it
so and then outputs are preparing a rich
and strong coffee same goes with the
latte you just need to put in your
coffee type and then you get your
factory design pattern out here so I
hope that it helps to understand a
little bit about what exactly Factory
design pattern means now what I'll do
I'll simply go ahead and teach you a
little bit about how we use this uh
Factory design pattern into to ingesting
our data so I don't want you to look at
any of this I just want you to look at
few folders and uh of course you have to
do it again by your own so by the end of
this we'll I'll you you don't have to
write it by my from what I'm teaching
it's not on the way I want you to first
of all see understand and then do this
project from scratch by your own so I
want to look at the data folder and the
data folder is is having archive. zip
we'll be giving all these files and
folders into our source code so if
you're a paid paid guy then you must be
having these things already available to
you if not please feel free to Ping On
pza or tell to our course instructor
course coordinator he or she will be
able to help you
out now into this archive. ZIP is where
you have the uh you know data available
now most of the people were do the do
they simply create a function to unzip
the file and then probably go ahead now
let's understand the case where there is
CSV file then what you need to do you
need to create another sort of folder
and then the different type of data
comes you to create another function in
the same file and then try to do it and
then what if if this Json things comes
into play going to create another
function into the data inest now that is
the readability and probably very a
messy and not you know extendable code
if you have 1 million um formats of the
data are you going to create one million
stuff of course you have to create
functions for every you'll be not doing
it because it is if you think about in
terms of time complexity and stuff like
that it's not good so what do we do so I
want to look at ingest data. pi and the
way we work into inest Data Pi
is is we going to implement the factory
design pattern into this so what happens
I'm going to be very honest so what
happens that you will be having the data
coming in and then that factory will
have one work identify the format of the
data and then ingest it the pattern is
very similar to it but the factory
Remains the Same Factory can Pro produce
several formats Factory can ingest
several formats right so this is why we
are going to use um abstract class into
it so sorry uh Factory uh pattern into
it so as usual we we have created our
own data ingestor interface or interface
for the data ingestor of what it will
look like so the interface would more
like that we want to ingest so every
every implementation of this interface
will have every implementation of any
format of data will have ingest method
so ingest method will take file path
that what is the path of the file and
will return the data frame because we
all always work in a data frame of
course there are several other formats
but into into into the project will be
working on data frame so over here U
that will take file path and the file
path type would be string and that will
return the data frame now why I am
highlighting these that what is the type
what is the uh returning and adding the
dock string and stuff like that the
reason why we are doing it because if
anybody comes and sees this they know
that if I want to run this class this
will return a data frame that's what it
is going to returning and then this is
this is what we call as type checkins so
um over here you are telling any
developer which is coming so that
maintains the readability of the code
and that is what most of the
organization look at for your in your
code so now as you move forward we want
to implement one of because our data is
in Z zip file we want to ensure that we
have the uh method sorry class which
takes in the zip file and then possibly
unzip it and then converts into CSV file
and then Returns the data frame now zip
data ingestor will take an interface
that data ingestor is an interface that
you should have ingest method now uh
that is that is an abstract method
abstract is what something which is an
imaginary thing right so that is what
imaginary thing now you to convert those
imagination to implementation so inest
data we'll expect to file path and
return the period data frame which is
extension of this inest and then now we
go ahead and ensure that things the file
which is coming in is a ZIP file this is
another important aspect of it that we
want to ensure whatever coming in so
even if you have given it we want to
ensure the file is a z file if the file
is not zip file we want to handle that
error and raise the value error saying
that the provided file is not zip file
now most the people what do will what
they will do they'll simply go ahead and
extracting the zip file but they will
not verify that things which is coming
into me is really a zip file then only
it will work so this is a trait of a
professional developer or a data sign
scientist or Machining engineer that
they know to that they make sure that
whatever coming in is perfect for it to
work now we are going to use zip file
Library so zip file is a library which
helps you to extract so on zip file we
give file path we give access to read it
and then we say extract all the data
from it so it simply extracts the zip
file and then once the zip file is uh
extracted now there is the CSV file
which is into the
uh ZIP file out there so now if the CSV
file is not there that's where so this
is the CSV file so we want to ensure
that there are CSV files so when you
list the directory so OS is where you
can list the directories of extracted
data so there will be another folder
created extracted data and the extracted
data will have so it's like zip file you
give the zip zip file path as a zip
reference and then you extract all into
the new folder which is extracted data
so it will extract whatever content is
inside it the content is msh housing.
CSV now that is the content into that
particular zip file now you just go
ahead and then look at the D files which
is present inside the extracted data and
then what you do you see that if there's
you have this uh kind of a oneliner
thing for f in the extracted files if
there is the files available which ends
with CSV if that is then uh then you
simply go ahead so it's like we handle
another error so we say if length of CSV
files whatever the length if there is
zero which means no CSV files are found
so we cannot go ahead and help you out
into this but if this but also we also
handle another case which says that if
the length of the file is greater than
one which means that are multiple CSV
files found please specify which one to
use so if they're multiple files you
handle it differently so we we we look
at both of these things and then we go
ahead and then we join the uh the the
extracted data so we create that path so
that the path will look like this that
goes extracted data slash your CSV files
so I wanted to this is the basic things
which everyone should know so it's as
simple as that and then once you have
the path ready you just call c. CSV that
is the power of doing things very
differently so over here we have learned
several things right now and the the
main motor for you is to figure out when
you work on new project these things
should be key element of your project is
type checkin readability handling errors
making Mak sure that we are handling
errors and fifth Rule Do not forget all
four rules out there okay perfect so now
what we do because we have created
because we have the zip extens we have
zip product ready we simply go ahead and
create the factory it is a static method
and of course I expect you that you
already know static method abstract
method because it is the basics of
python to be learned so you say get data
ingestor and what is the file extension
and then it will return the data
ingestor
uh class which is this class which is
the abstract class that that is the type
which which we want to have so EV this
this also this is a kind of uh type
which is being returned so data inor it
expects the file extension and then it
goes ahead and then ingests the data now
if the file extension is equal equals to
dotzip then one run the zip data in
ingestor otherwise do not run so it a no
ingestor available for extensions CS
let's say Json so now let's say if
somebody needs to create the Json they
can just extend this abstract class to
Json following or writing the ex
implementation of the ingest so this
this ensures your readability and
ensures your scalability aspect
too now the usage is I'm not going to
run it because I'm going to show it you
in jupyter Notebook as soon as soon as
you go it's more like this is our file
path we take out the extension by
looking at what exactly the extension is
by following this de determining the
filing extension and then over here you
are seeing we not hardcoding it we are
actually using that to figure out using
the coding and then that CSV thing and
then we getting the appropriate data
ingestor so if it was CSV so now that's
another learning for you the learning is
that if by chance if it is J you have th
millions of formats and over here you
have Json so every time you to change
this file extension so you just what you
do you automate this process by looking
at automatically over here and you just
pass in this variable into this so it
automatically gets the extensions just
by giving the file path you know you
don't need to change file extension
every time you go so ingesting the data
and loading into the data frame which is
ingest which is the data ingestor it
ingests the file parts and then we print
the data DF doad I want you to run it by
your own I'll be also running it in jup
Notebook right now but this is what the
ingest data looks like I hope I was able
to explain you very clearly about how do
we ingest the data into this and
several learnings from it and now what
we will do we'll go ahead and spend an
hour or so or probably less than that 40
50 minutes into the Eda which is
exploratory data analysis and we try to
understand our data in a very detailed
way before we get started towards doing
more analyzing and stuff like that what
I want to introduce you to it's
something known as Julius so Julius is
something which I use a lot because it
helps me to analyze my data better and
they're doing very well and very good
Community work and something which I'm
particularly very used to in my projects
and uh helps you to give a overview when
work towards uh creating more better and
understanding your data better right so
uh I want you to first of all go to
Julius AI because Julius AI is something
you can go here it's it's more sort of
uh analyzing your data so it helps you
to analyze your data gets insights to
Advanced analysis you can also help ask
it to do problem solving and stuff like
that and more interestingly you can
develop reports so something like this
which is which creates a very big
differentiator so we have not utilized
this whole into the course but I want
you to utilize this by your own and
possibly see what you can do with it
like you can do visualizations you can
ask data questions you can do some quick
experiments you want to do you can try
several setup models by one liner of
course it is not replacing it but it is
helping you to make your task easier
that's what employers wants to see they
want to see whether you are able to uh
use kind of a quick things to understand
and save time in your original book so
this is the Julius and I want to show
you some of his interesting feature
because I use it uh very regularly is
what you can do you can either go ahead
and create a new thread you can upload
your data the house price data you can
upload simply over here and then you can
start asking it more formal questions
but at the same time what I want is I
want you to see uh something known as
threats which is you can just go ahead
upload your data or Google Sheets or or
maybe some stuff like that you can start
with data visualization or probably they
have they have lot of workflows so I
wanted to go to the my workflows and
then they have a lot of workflows if I
could show
you um uh
just give me a second I need to log in
it
yeah explore workflows if you go to
explore workflows there are a lot of
workflows which is available out here
for example data processing data
visualizations data cleaning statistic
bar chart education so I let's say that
that you want to explore some
visualization you go over here and there
are lot of workflows already available
for you so so you don't have to create
by your own but already available for
you like correlation Matrix
grouped bar are probably simple in
creating correlation principal component
analysis Freedman tests and much more so
let's say that I want to go ahead with
the cor correlation Matrix I click on
the correlation Matrix so what is the
steps so it asks you to upload the data
and then it will give you the uh
correlation Matrix shot so let's say if
I visualize it so it's more
like uh you run the workflow and then
you have to upload your data first of
all because that's what it asked for is
please upload the data so you upload the
data and then you ask any sort of task
and then you execute this that it will
automatically create a correlation so
there's just like this there are a lot
of uh into the data visualization same
goes if you want to do data processing
they have workflows over here which is
combined to csvs and they they're coming
with a lot of workflows to make your
experiments quicker so you can start
with all the core things over here
itself and get things done so this was
this is what I use very often and they
have a very nice Community forum and
probably model lab and you can explore
the community forum is too good that you
can get a lot of suggestions on your
projects which I personally use so I
would suggest you to utilize it as much
as you can and then probably see it's
completely free tool there's no you know
I'm not doing any paid promotions and
stuff like that it's completely free
tool I use it personally I want you to
use it uh so yeah let me know um I want
you to utilize this but of course let's
get started with our original thing
which we have started to do so hi
everyone we are finally going to start
with analysis one of my favorite part
and possibly I could say that one of the
most important part into any project and
we will not just follow a particular
framework we will not just follow a set
of that we should do this do that I'll
show you that what was my decision
thinking involved what was my mindset
before applying any sort of
visualization or sort of plots or any as
such so I'll show you those decision or
mindset thinking so you develop
a practicality of what Eda is about Eda
is not about uh following a standard
Frameworks and then looking at it that's
it for the for the sake of doing it but
actually it is important because it
helps you to understand what sort of
decision which I should make when I go
into processing stage feature
engineering stage because you'll be
noticing that I'll be taking several
several insights from Eda in order to
decide which which algorithm I should
use decide the feature engineering
decide what sort of processing
techniques needs to be applied and much
more it also tells me a little bit hint
about whether my model fits the
assumptions for the algorithm which I'm
going to use or not so uh we'll spend a
bit of time into analysis and make sure
that you fully understand it and again I
want you to open up the documents and
everything materials so that you also
follow me
along now over here imagine your before
going into our
uh Eda stage I wanted to first of all
teach a little bit about strategy
pattern and probably I'll teach you why
it helps where it helps and stuff like
that so strategy pattern is an another
design pattern so let's say that you're
developing an e-commerce application so
e-commerce application is where you
create some sort of payment gateways and
all so customers can choose different
payment G methods like credit card
PayPal Bitcoin Google pay UPI stuff like
that so each payment method has a
different implementation but the overall
process is the same that the customer
has to pay so the process or the context
Remains the Same that they have to pay
but the strategies differs but the
strategy differs because some sometimes
they use credit card sometimes they use
PayPal or Bitcoin so over here the we'll
we create an strategy which is the
payment method which is an interface
just like we were creating into our
Factory that we create an interface that
it that it it it should look like this
and then we create several strategies or
implementations of those pay strategies
that credit card payment papal you
develop a logic of it and then you have
the context that every everyone needs to
pay that they they need to put in into a
context that will be used to pay um so
the context is that everyone needs to
pay the process Remains the Same but the
implementations differs so I'm going to
exactly code this out into one of the
explanations so I want you to go ahead
and click on explanations and click on
strategy design
pattern so strategy design pattern is
probably same as what you have been
doing in a factory design pattern but it
again has its own advantages and
Powerful stuff which eventually you can
use it into a project and which will'll
be using into the Eda part two now the
strategy design pattern will have its
first of all a strategy interface which
is which which we call it as a payment
method so strategy interface will have
its own method abstract method the
imaginary method that every strategy
should implement this method which is
pay now pay is where it is abstract
method your takes in the amount you can
also go ahead and type set it's like
string or integer or whatever now you
take that as an interface and Implement
strategies it might be credit card
payment or it might be you inherit that
uh abstract class and then you into the
con concrete strategies so payment
method payal Bitcoin UPI you can create
multiples and then you create the
context the context is the shopping cart
that everyone needs to pay so what sort
of payment method and then the checkout
method so which is do pay which is
everyone needs to pay into the context
into a particular shopping cart so you
go ahead and create a shopping cart the
strategy what sort of payment it expects
and then you pay card. checkout whatever
the number is card check out 200 for any
sort of payment methods so this is a
simple explanation about strategy design
pattern and we'll be using this into our
Eda or analysis because see the Eda is
over here I I don't want to look
anywhere I just want to look at this
analysis folder so analysis folder has
ed. ipnb which is Jupiter notebook file
you can use Jitter notebook into this
case I use Visual Studio code because
from starting from four years I've been
using this one I particularly like this
uh using into the V Visual Studio code
itself but what you can do you can also
do it on a jupyter notebook whatever you
have
uh now before getting into this I want
you to be very comfortable with uh what
this folder indicates so analyze source
is the implementation so we'll be doing
several plottings visualizations several
other things we have like data
inspection missing value analysis byar
analysis Univar anal analysis
multivariate analysis so if you do this
this will be very cluttered I want it to
also be scalable so that anyone at any
point of time can use this so for that I
have created analyze Source where the
all the implementations and the logic
present in the source file and then EDI
uses those source file in order to
create visualization so that it remains
very small right a kind of a jupit node
because I'm not a big fan of
implementing Logics because Jupiter
notebook implementing logic in a Jupiter
notebook does not makes you a big
differentiator so over here we'll be
having the analyze source and all the
implementations are done into the
analyze Source
itself now if you go ahead and uh look
at Eda so Eda I want you to first of all
ignore all of this whatever the Imports
we are doing just remember import pandas
as PD import numai as NP and then
because we have already extracted the
data because I actually ran that injest
data we all you also have the CSV file
so we don't want to use that directly
over here we just can use the CSV file
which has been extracted and then p.
read CSV the so it assumes that you have
already extracted the data into the
extracted data folder from the zip
file okay so now once you have loaded
the data you also set the display
options that you want to display maximum
of 100 rows to make sure that it looks
very beautiful into the joper notebook
that's why we just have the display
options for the data frames and
stuff so the first step is any project
that I want to know about the data I
want to know how many number of AR rows
how many number of for columns what is
the basic numerical things what is the
mean median the number of accounts
standard deviation variance and all
those details I want to know each and
every aspect of that so I've created a
basic data inspection. piy and the basic
data inspection. piy what it does that
it does the basics of whatever
inspecting of the data is you can also
copy the same code into several of the
projects because I've done a very very
spent a very very good time into
documenting it out very nicely so that
each even if you just go ahead you know
each and everything just by looking at
the project itself so when you move
ahead you have the abstract based class
for so as usual you'll create an
interface that a data inspection
strategy and the work of it would be to
just inspect and how it will inspect is
by taking the data frame into it so the
the general format so I this this is
another learning for you the general
format for writing any talk string is as
follows that you write a oneliner
description about what exactly this
method does what are the input
parameters it takes into this it takes
it is taking a DF which is a data frame
on which the inspection has to be
performed and what is the type you
mentioned over here and what it returns
it returns nothing because it is an
abstract class right and then you just
pass it out so that you don't have to
imple you're not implementing it it is
just an abstract Base Class for your uh
inspection so I've also written this
class defines a common interface for for
data inspection subclasses must
implement the inspect method so if you
implement another data inspection
strategy by by following this interface
they should imple implement this inspect
that is where your uh strategies come
because as I say the implementations
might be different but what finally what
do what they what do they have to do
they have to just inspect
it right so now as you go ahead we
create a simple one which is the data in
inspection strategies
so we first of all explore the data
types of each column and count non-null
values into it which is basically D DF
doino which you which you guys do so
again you're seeing even the simple DF
doino could have been done over there it
has been elaborated nicely which shows
your readability for anyone comes coming
over here right so it shows data types
and non-n counts for every column and
then another strategy which again
summary statistic and inspiration in
inspection strategy which inher which is
one of the subclasses of your abstract
class which is data inspection strategy
and then over here you create an inspect
and then takes the data frame what it
does it prints the summary of it it
prints the summary statistic of it of
the numerical columns and then it's it
inspects for the categorical columns so
both of it we have printed out so a
simple thing has been has been converted
into a very nice set of classes sub
classes which again make make sure that
you're we are not complicating it we are
not complicating it this is what is
being done by most of the people out
there good
people so now because as as I say in
into the payment case the shopping cart
was the context into this the data
inspector was the context so what it
does it helps you to allow to switch
between different data inspection
strategies because one base data types
an inspection strategy another one is
summary inspection strategy right so it
helps you to switch between separate
just like in a shopping cart is able to
switch between credit card PayPal
Bitcoin over here is it happens the same
so it expects you to tell me what
strategy I'm going to use and then it
just takes in the parameters of strategy
the strategy to be used for the data
ingestion and then it sets the strategy
what sort of strategy needs to implement
it and then it executes the strategy so
we create a
uh self. strategy and then we set the
strategy by the strategy given into into
input and then we execute that by
calling the strategy do inspect because
one of the method is do inspect from
this so we just call do inspect and then
we give into the data frame into it very
simple you just go ahead and that is
what the whole thing is so now if we go
ahead to eta.
ipnb you simply go ahead you in you
import the CSV file the first step is
data inspector so you put in your data
data types first of all you want to
understand about the data types and then
you click on execute inspection which is
a call execute inspection so when you
call execute inspection what it does the
execute inspection will simply go ahead
and then call this strategy. inspect so
strategy which has been set it will just
simply go here and then call this method
which is the subass method and then that
will be run right so over here when you
run that you'll be having what is the
entries what is the columns out there
what is the nonnull count what is the
data type of it so uh all of this you
have 801 features out there of course
you cannot see it everywhere but yeah
that is what you can see now we will
come back to this once again because
they are 89 we need to find a way that
because we cannot just keep on looking
at nonnull non null we we need to find
the specific ways to see where we have a
missing value so that's why we have
missing value analysis systems ready too
but now we also want to switch our
strategy to summary statistics so
instead of instantiating the same method
we just change that data inspector to
set strategy to the different strategy
which is summary statistic inspection
strategy so we do not have to
reinstantiate it right so data inspector
again. execute inspection it just goes
back to summary statistics it's C
inspect method and then prints out for
you for the numerical and categorical
columns right so this is is what you get
in the inspection now um what we do we
buil a story line out of it we I now
what you can do you can simply go ahead
and click on open into view as a scroll
so now what you can do you can explore
all these
uh columns out here and same you can
just go and click on scrollable element
you can go ahead and look out for the
detail summary statistics for the
categorical summary statistics for the
numerical now I want you to understand a
story line behind it I want you to know
about the story line behind it so let's
let let me tell you what is the Insight
which I gathered of course you can take
a brief look at the data and then come
to these insights because I've already
taken a look I've written that out into
the markdown so the data set cons
contains
2,930 entries and 82 columns which is
very simple to understand and there are
11 columns with this 28 columns with
this and this this is a very basic uh
you know whatever insights which which
we could get now this is the major
Insight from the summary that it tells
you lot of stuff out
here now the first one is numerical
feature so in numerical feature the
target variable the sale price which you
want to predict that is the target
variable which we are targeting because
there's several features and you finally
to predict the sale price has a mean of
$1,796 with a standard deviation of $
79,81 six which is in indicating a
spreading significant spread in house
prices like there is sign if if you know
what standard deviation that's I hope
that you're able to get it that they e
spread throughout it it now you'll see
when when now over here there's a
another decision that how it is spread
that is the another question are are is
it too low or is it too high is it
positively skewed or negatively screed
so all these things you have to figure
out that's one decision which I made is
I want to go ahead see what the
distribution of sale prices because I
want to know because it is showing a
significant spread into the house prices
because mean that is and it's tration
service 79,000 which is huge for the
significant
thing another one is overall quality
which is the quality of the house which
ranges from 1 to 10 with a mean of 6.69
which is showing a relatively high
quality and average and then what is the
ear buildt which is 1872 to 2010
indicating that the data sets includes
both very old houses and relatively new
houses into the data set lot area which
is the kind of area which is there has a
wide range which means that it says that
there is a maximum of
25,2 45 ft which might indicate very
large properties but there's also
concerning because if you're using
linear regression or any such algorithms
there's several regression algorithms
which is very affected by outliers and
they can potentially overfit and they
can potentially ignore these kind of
values so
first of all it indicates that they are
large properties but it also says that
they are extreme outliers too and the
because it is because the mean is
180,000 it is getting
lot I mean lot are is 215,000 which is
huge which is a good big houses but also
at the same time extreme outlines we
need to look at this aspect too another
aspect in the numerical feature the
distribution of gr live area Ave ground
living area which shows a mean of 1499
Square ft with a wide range which could
significantly impact the sale price
again we have to see the distribution of
these numerical features very in detail
in order to get any resulting outcomes
but what I really understood from you
know going ahead and then
possibly uh roaming around and see what
exactly it helps and all I feel that we
need to look at the distribution of the
sale price and also I need to look at
the distributions of other numeric
features and I need to handle outliers
at some point so these are decisions
which has been made that is what my
mindset is that it tells you something
then then you explore it further for the
categorical neighborhood has 28 unique
values with names beings the most common
supporting some neighborhood might
dominate the data sets so over here we
are ensuring if there's an imbalanced
class data set problem amazoning is
mostly RL residential low density with
seven uni zoning types Al has a high
frequency of missing values that's where
I will come back to missing value
analysis but Ali has high frequency of
missing values which we need to look at
now there are other C category variable
which is good good enough but we need to
ensure that those will be crucial in
predicting the sale price so we also
want to look at these those aspects too
so this is it about the data inspection
the basic data inspection we have
understood that we there is a problem of
outliers there is a problem of
missing values we because there is a
problem of skewness we want to ensure
because the algorithm which we're going
to use is very prone to does not perform
so the data is highly skewed or has a
good set of outlier so we ensure that we
also make sure that it fits the best to
the algorithm so the next what we want
to do is we want to go ahead and see the
missing value see where it helps see the
see the impact of the missing values and
then possibly we will see that how we
could handle that once we see the
missing values we'll also go ahead and
then do the understand the single
variation single analysis like what the
distribution of the sale price
distribution of several numerical
features where this qess is high and
then we'll see that how those how two
two features relate with each other are
they really affecting or are they
following some sort of distribution
right so all those things we will do it
so let's catch up in the next
one hi welcome back so we'll continue
our analysis uh work and uh before
analysis work I want you to again learn
about one last design pattern which we
will frequently use into our sessions is
template design patterns and then we
will I'll teach you a little bit about
uh missing values and we'll try to
decode the missing value analysis so
what is template pattern so template
pattern is another design pattern so the
analogy is the best way to understand
any design pattern is try to think from
a real world analogy so analogy so what
happens that let's say you run a rest
with a set of menu for different
Cuisines each Cuisine like Italian
Chinese Indian Pakistani whatever so
each Cuisine will have its own sequence
of courses start with the appetizers
then main course then desert and then
beverages so the sequence is specifics
to each and every Cuisine so so but the
dishes Chinese different might be
Chinese dishes might might be different
Pakistani dishes might be different
Indian dises might be different for
example in India we have starters
Beverages and stuff but the but in Stars
you might have some else but in China
but in Chinese dish your startus might
be different or Korean so it depends
heavily so the sequence for serving the
course is the same but the dishes served
at each step vary depending on the
cuisine which you're having if you're
going going to a Korean restaurant the
dishes will be different if you're going
to Indian the dishes will will be
different right so it depends on the
cine which you're
targeting so the the let's say there's
an Italian meal the appetizer might the
Russia the main course would be pasta
desert would be tasu and beverage would
be glass of Vine in Chinese the
appetizer could be string rolls main
course would be noodles desert would be
cookies and the beverage would be tea
right so if you see notice that there
there a particular overall dining
sequence is the same that is the
template that is the same but the things
which is customizable steps are the
specific dishes served at each stage
which changes based on the cuisine which
is which which you have so it's more
like the template pattern which you use
is more like your changing fire having
the overall sequence but having
different set of uh steps so I'm going
to show you with which is the template
design pattern so template design
pattern over here the interface will be
a little different so interface would be
desing experience and then dining
experience we'll have to serve a dinner
serve dinner is first serve appetizer
then serve main course then serve desert
then serve average beverages so the
template method defines the skeleton of
the dining experience of what the
skeleton should be now then you abstract
method for each surf course because
appetizer might be different you might
be giving another appetize you might be
giving another main course depending on
the cuisine out there so then based on
the abstract class you have you create
concrete class that implements the
Italian so for the Italian if somebody
chooses Italian so you actually this is
a subass of your dining experience your
s appetizer serving this serving that
serving this this is for Chinese and
then you can simply go ahead Italian
dinner so this is Italian dinner. serve
dinner so it follows a specific course
right
same goes with the Chinese dinner out
here so this is known as the template
design pattern which we going to use
some sort of into our missing value
analysis so we in the last one we have
actually seen those things now what
we're going to do is going to see if
there's any missing values into it if
there is then how we could possibly uh
look at it so we first create so
anywhere you should always have a plan
right so the abstract class is more like
a plan or kind of a template so into
this missing value analysis template
this class defines a template for
missing values and the subass will have
to implement the methods to identify and
visualize the missing values so that is
what the plan for missing value
analysis I want you to also look at
these doc strings in great great detail
once you finish this lecture because
there are a lot of things written in
order just to
understand okay so the analyze will
follow two steps identifying the missing
values and identifying the um
visualizing the missing values so they
will call two methods the method would
be you have to make identify the missing
values and visualize those by taking the
data frame in so we'll create a simple
subass which is the concrete class for
missing value identification and then uh
over there he will also visualize it so
it is it is a subass of this uh Missing
value analysis template and then it has
to make the identify missing values and
then visualize missing values so into
this it takes in that data frame in and
then it says that okay I will missing
values count by column so it's it DF do
is null. sum I hope you know it it's
simply it creates a column and then it
for every column it has the number of if
it is zero then it does not prints if it
is more than zero it prints out over
here another one is visualizing the
missing values so I'll explain you what
exactly it does so the first step is
that we want to make a figure so we want
to we take a page right so it creates a
figure of 12
um the the figure will be 12 in wide and
8 in tall that is the size of the plot
should be you can also play it around if
you need a little bit more and then
you're going to use caborn Library so we
implode caborn as SNS and uh use that to
create a heat map heat map is a library
where we can look at the uh you know
correlations fishing value analysis lot
of things we can look at from here so
the heat map will contain DF do is n so
it creates a data frame of the same
shape as DF so it will have the you know
shame SAE so it will be more
like let's say the DAT data frame is a
I'm just going to write it a 1 2 3 4
then you have B column
name again you have
one 2
three four right so now over here uh
this is the data frame now let's see if
this has a null non value this has a non
value so it will the DF do is will
create a data frame something like this
so in Nan values if so it will create a
I'll just copy and paste it
directly it will this data frame but it
there will be slight difference it will
create it will with the Boolean value so
if the missing value is present then
it's then it will write true but if the
missing value is not present it will
write
false so it will return something like
this it it will return some something
like this data frame so your heat map
will be built on top of this data frame
right so you given this U DF do is no it
will be a data frame where it will
indicate stuff now c bar is equals to
false so c bar is in kind of uh uh
disables the color bar of on the side of
the heat map you can try it through and
see how it works but cbar is is more
used when you have the um binary data
sort of thing but it is not but it will
not add any sort of in information what
is the color map the color map of this
cmap should be Veris so what does word
this means it will be like a which it is
like a color gradient which starts from
the purple to Yellow so if if you have
the in in in a particular column if that
is looking purple then then there's no
missing values but if it is looking but
if it is yellow then there's some
missing values so I want you to go ahead
and see it so now what I'm going to do
I'm going to Simply simple value
analysis so over here we are also
importing it if you truly see from
Analyze source. basic data inspection we
are importing this data inspector class
data type inspection summary statistic
from value analysis we are importing
simple missing value
analysis so we import that then we give
the we call analyze and then we then it
gives this particular column before we
because we printed out to identify those
and then it gives this heat map to so
the heat Maps over here you can see the
purple is where there is no no value of
no missing values but whenever there is
yellow there are missing values
available so you see the lot of columns
which has a lot of missing values
available out
there so there are a lot of insights I
have written so over here yellow
represents the missing values the more
yellow the column is the more the
missing data into that and then purple
or dark color represents the non-missing
values that uh that that indicate the
most of data is present if there purely
purple out there right so there are a
lot of columns which like clot Frontage
mass venner mass venner area Garage pool
area they all have the substantial
yellow y kind of so they have the sort
of missing values another one is that if
the yellow so there is two I want you to
know about the randomly distributed
because nobody knows about it because I
I was also into the initial stages when
I actually know no knew about this that
there are two types of distribution of
missing data which is randomly
distributed and structured missingness
so if the yellow marks are scattered
without any noticeable pattern it's a
just that missing data might be randomly
distributed that there's no correlation
between any of it but if by chance it is
structured missingness if the yellow is
stru clustered in a certain rows or
columns it might indicate a nonrandom
pattern of
missingness which is very kind of good
thing or also bad thing at some sense
for example entire rows or colons might
missing could suggest a data collection
issue or that these features are not
applicable in those cases so you might
not want to remove it right so these all
are the very crucial decision which you
have to
tell so now we have also written I've
also written these have this number of a
column single missing values and all so
from all of this Insight what do We
Gather what sort of issues to be
addressed the first one is we need to
address the missing values there are
moderate missing values there are
significant missing values or there are
single missing values so how do we
address this maybe sign significant we
go ahead and drop these columns entirely
as they we don't have the data they
don't add a significant value or we
Implement with some missing values
moderate in which we we can put it in
with some zeros for numerical ones or
maybe missing values could be filled
with no basement or no garage for
categorical depends on how we going to
handle it I hope you have seen feature
engineering lectures then it will only
start making sense and then we have
single missing values these can be
filled with mode or mean for categorical
so we can just take more and then put it
over
there now we have also seen there are a
lot of issues of outlier detection like
there are lot of uh features which has a
huge
outliers and uh we also need to
categorically encode it because we
machines can never expect English you
need to categorically en encode it I
hope you know what is categorical
encoding and then feature engineering
based on the inside certain features
needs to be engineered like combining
related features creating International
terms or because there are skewes we
need to also figure out how do we
transform qess to normal distribution
because regression works on the normal
distribution because it is one it is it
should be normally distributed then only
it will work and then as as as I say the
correlation should be good so we need to
also see the multicolinearity because
this is one of the assumptions of
regression so we need to look at all of
this which we're going to look at in
univariate multivariate and bivariate
Analysis so let's go ahead and look at
that aspect too until then
bye-bye so now what we will do we will
go ahead and uh
possibly uh do univariate analysis so
the reason why we are doing univariate
analysis because we have found that from
the whatever insights which we had that
sale price is somewhat distributed
standard deviation is 74,000 that means
it has it is somewhat uh distributed and
it's kind of significantly distributed
it is is not normally distributed that
is one I want to know because because
for working of algorithm uh linear
regression which we going to use you
need to make sure that it is following
normal distribution so we to look at the
distributions of our Target variable and
then possibly go ahead and see if
there's some something can be done so we
look at our uh distribution of our one
target variable and then we look at for
categorical variables and stuff like
that so what I'm going to do again it is
going to be probably the same design
pattern which we going to use and over
here uh what we going to do is we're
going to create first of all an simple
abstract class simple abstract class is
strategy which is univariate analysis
strategy and it will have a simple
method the which is the analyze so every
strategy will follow this analyze method
it will take the data frame in because
it is a univariate which means it will
do the single analysis one column for
only single feature right that's why
it's a univariate analysis so it takes a
DF and then the feature which is what
feature to analyze so it will ask these
two information from the user then we
create strategies the first strategy
which we're going to create is numerical
univariate analysis because we want to
first of all analyze the numerical
features it is a subass of unit variate
analysis strategy and this is one of the
strategy of that strategy abstract
strategy class now we here we'll analyze
it the an analyze will take a data frame
in and the features in so data frame
will be more like a panda data frame and
the features would be more like a string
and then it plots the distribution of
how it is distributed is normally
distributed positive distributed
negatively distributed and stuff like
that so it eventually has this parameter
and then the feature and then we you we
plot that so we again figure 10 by 6 in
and then you you plot a histogram
because you want to see the histogram I
hope you already know what these
histogram we want to plot for the this
feature we want to KDE is equal to 2
I'll explain you what this KDE means and
the bins equals to 30 which means I'll
also explaining what these two three
means so we go ahead and uh plot that
particular thing so we import first of
all Univar anal analyzer which is this
particular class and then we give
numerical univarate analysis because we
want to do the numerical stuff and then
we click on execute analysis giving the
data frame and the particular column
name so when we do that we get something
like this visualizations for our Target
variable now kte means that it gives
it's it is a kernel density estimate it
is a line it is it it it adds a line to
the histogram which represents a smooth
version of a histogram because if you
see that this this line which is going
it is a smooth version of a histogram
which better estimates the distribution
of the data you can better see it from
here right and the b equals to 30 means
that it specifies the number of a bins
or the intervals for the histogram
because you're having several intervals
out here so what should be the proper
intervals so which is which have set to
30 so now I'll so now let's say if you
increase the more number of bins which
means that it will provide a more finer
granular granularity for the
distribution but if you have fewer bins
it will show more coarser view corser
overview sort of things so if you want
to look very in detail then you increase
the number of bins but if you don't do
not want to then it's a corser uh
overview you will get right so U but
come coming back to this we create an
abstract method that abstract is a
strategy pattern which which has this
analyze and the numerical feature
numerical analysis is a subass of this
strategy which is one one of the
strategy and then you potentially plot
an histogram giving the title The X
label and the Y label for the same and
then you click on PLT do show which
means it is eventually shows the image
we create another strategy for
categorical features so that this
strategy is for categorical features
indeed and what it does so it it
analyzes the categorical feature by
plotting their frequency distribution so
over here for categorical we're going to
plot this particular count plot so count
plot is kind of a more specified version
so if I could show you this is how it
looks like so we set the strategy
instead of reinstantiate that class we
just set a strategy to categorical
uniate analysis and then we execute the
analysis on this data frame for this
particular column which is neighborhood
and this is where you have uh several
like names Gilbert Stone be names thers
badel and all these so you get the count
plot for this twoo same happens what is
the X what is the data and what is the
pallet we want to have what is the title
X label Y lbel and then at last
show so this is the um we this is what
we use for analyzing the categorical
feature now if if I if I go ahead and
show you what is insights which we get
from the univariate analysis it's more
about that the sale price distribution
so the distribution for the sales price
is positively skewed because that's what
I was telling because most of the
majority of the houses were falling
between 100,000
250,000 which means that if you see over
here it is 100,000 to 250,000 more most
of the prices right so that's where most
of the things lies in and the peak
frequency is around the 200,000 Mark
which is the most number of uh houses
are around 200,000 Mark right $20,000 so
what does it mean that skis suggests
that most homes in the data sets are
relatively affordable of course it's
200,000 for the real estate is very
affordable with fewer high-end
properties there are very few right so
it's also suggest that the long tail on
the right side which you see that's
where your uh expensive items com comes
into the play and which may need a
special consideration during modeling
right so that your model looks at the
high-end prices too so for that if you
have seen my feature engineering lecture
you must be knowing that we can possibly
apply or use log normalization log
transformation to normalize this this
distribution to follow the normal
distribution Assumption of linear
regression right so that's where another
learning for you that if based on the
implications that okay it is because
there are a lot of there are there are
some uh high-end properties we could
apply log transformation in order to
normalize this in order to follow make
make this follow one of the assumptions
of linear
regression now as we move forward there
is another one which is the neighborhood
distribution which is the categorical
feature so what does it mean this shows
a Val distributions being the most
neighborhood followed by college CR
Oldtown and all so the higher frequency
of now what is the implication of this
this is another uh understanding is for
the certain neighborhoods suggest that
there are areas who could significantly
influence overall pricing values so if
it is names then it can overly influence
overall so it is the problem of
imbalance class problem because there
are several areas which is lower but you
need to handle it very carefully
otherwise what will happen if there is
problems of overfitting will start to
happen problem of uh uh you know not
model being not able to intelligently
recognize overfitting will start to
happen because there are very few
observations because for the certain uh
categories there are very few
observations so your model M completely
focus on few observations which has the
highest number of uh U rows right so you
need to make sure that overfitting does
not happens that's where you apply
regularization techniques or probably
frequency encoding and all those things
comes comes into the play however we'll
be not focusing too much on improving it
because there are lot of things which
will be given to you for sure by the end
of it to to improve it by your own also
so that this is something which you
which which you learn on the go so um
this is what the univariant where we
understood our categorical one of the
one of the target variable and one of
the categorical most important variables
you can do the same for other numerical
features other categorical features
along the way because for me it was more
like that I wanted to show you that how
your decision process thinking should be
you can go ahead figure out Trick tweak
it around find more numerical variables
see what exactly build a story line on
top of it so what what you can do you
can say that okay if the price is this
much then the then the you could
possibly predict by taking the mean or
the distri looking at the distribution
of other numerical features right so
there are a lot of things which you can
do into it I want you to experiment it
out by your own and see how it helps you
now into this now now into the next one
I'm going to show you how you can
compare two variables which is by
variate analysis and then see what it
yields go ahead and learn a little bit
about comparing two variables and
probably seeing the relationships
between them comparing two features and
seeing the relationships between them
that's what we call as a b variate
analysis we'll try to follow the same
strategy is the strategy pattern so
we'll create an interface which is by
variate analysis strategy which takes
the data frame in is an input feature
one and the what kind of second feature
to be analyzed so these these two
features will be analyzed and the method
will visualize the relationship between
these two particular features so now
we'll start implementing it the first
we'll Implement is numerical values
numerical
analysis which is numerical versus
numerical analysis which means um we'll
put on y AIS numerical xais numerical
then we'll try to relationship between
two of it so it takes in as an input of
a data frame and then it pull out a
feature one and the feature two and uh
We've set up the size scatter plot I
hope you know the scatter plot X should
be feature one y should be feature 2 and
the data where it should take the these
features is the data frame which we ask
for and then we show so the third step
as I told you that we want to do the Y
variate analysis so we want to analyze
the relationship between two numerical
features with is ground living area and
a price so we instantiate by analyzer
giving them the numerical versus
numerical analysis and also we have
already imported numerical versus
numerical um from that file I hope you
know that how to import all of this you
can look at the file that we have
imported it and uh then possibly we just
click on execute analysis we give the
data we give the first we give the
second so the Y exis so you just must
know that sale price should be on Y and
ground living area on X so now if you
see that this is the scatter plot so
what do we infer from this scatter plot
how do we interpret it so that's what it
is written over here that there's a
strong positive correlation between the
Ave ground living area and the sale
price that larger homes generally sell
for higher prices which also indicates
that the data is correct because larger
homes will obviously sell for higher
prices right and over here it appears to
be very linear that's what the model
expects if you see the the the thing is
very linear but there is one issue that
there are a lot of outliers to there are
some outliers to which needs to be
looked at so it it validates the
linearity Assumption considering that
there are some values which is out of
the L linearity line so we need to look
at that aspect too so the linear
relation confirms that there is a strong
relationship between the ground living
area of ground living area and the
strong predictor of Sal price so which
means that if you give me the so the
model says that if you give me the above
ground living area I will tell you sale
price with higher confidence which means
that it is a very important
feature but there is a presence of
outliers uh which require a further
investigation or maybe treated or has to
be removed from the data in order to
avoid any potential concerns or issues
into our model so uh I I want you to try
out with more features I want you to
look at whether they are a strong
predictor or Not by looking at it by
looking at the sales um scatter plot so
it helps you to better understand these
paradigms um apart from it I wanted to
try that out but we can
also um try out categorical versus
numerical analysis which means that we
can have another strategy which can
analyze the relationship between the
categorical and numerical feature so
what does it mean that we we will first
of all analyze it and then we'll have a
box
plot so what it does it plots the
relationship between a categorical and
numerical feature I I'll further explain
You by taking taking one example so if
you go here by the way this is the
context class which sets the strategy I
I have already explained and executes
the analysis by calling that do analyze
feature by by the strategy which was set
so uh if we if I show you this is what
we are trying to do we are trying to
analyze is the relationship between the
two Cate a categorical feature and a
numerical feature so categorical feature
is the overall quality of the house
which ranges from 1 to 10 and the sale
price which is our Target variable now
if I could explain you what this this
box plot means and of course I'm I
expect you that you already know some of
the technical details of it that xais
into this represents the overall quality
variable which is likely categorical
variable indicating the quality rating
of houses which ranges from 1 to 10 and
and the Y AIS over here represents the
sale price which is the T Target
variable which is a numerical variable
showing the price at which houses were
sold so what does this boxes indicates
each box represents the inter quartile
range IQR so-called IQR I hope you
already know it of the data for a
particular quality rating so for for a
one there is inter cordle range for the
two there's an intertile range there's
three for 10 there is a intertile range
right so the IQ spans from 25th
percentile to 75th percentile of the
sales price and the L inside it so the
line inside it indicates the 50th
percentile over here so that's what the
box plot is I hope you know the
difference how do how can we interpret
the 25th 75th or
not the the viskus the the line which
you call it is known as the viscus it
shows the range of the sales price that
not considered outliers so if the value
Lies over here then it is not but these
blue these circles are the outliers
these because these are outside of the
viscus that's or which is uh which is
the outliers into this case so that's
why we use box plot to analyze the out
outliers to so the dot outside the
viscus represents outliers which are
sale price that are unusually high or
unusually row compared to the rest of
the data just mark my statement the dots
outside the V discour which you're
seeing the
circles represents the outliers because
the sales price that are unusually high
or unusually low into this case compared
to the rest of the data which is
available out here so what do we OB
observe from this so we see that overall
quality rating increases from 1 to 10
the sale price also tends to increase
which means we also seeing a linear
relationship because if it's truly
increase the number of U in rating the
sale price is also T to SC that makes
sense if the quality of the house is
good then the sale price will also be
very nice but if the quality house is
bad then the sales price would be very
less so it suggests a positive
correlation between the quality rating
of the house and its sale price so you
can say that it is a very general
statement to say that if the if the
house quality is good it's going to
definitely you're going to sell it for a
better price and then you can tell to
the stakeholders that this is the price
which you can sell it that's where you
use data science to make thorough data
decision
now higher quality ratings show a wider
range of sales price which
indicates more variability in the sales
price of higher quality homes so which
you can see that there are higher
variability into the higher ratings
house
too so I hope that you understood how
can we analyze you can take more learn
about correlations how you can look at
it how you can build a story line out of
it how you can help this to make the
guys to make better decisions and all
sort of things can be inferred from it
so I've written the same over here that
you can look at
the Quality out here and the answer the
answers out here right so what do we
whatever we have done univariate by
variate missing basic what do we
conclude we conclude that both are
strong ground living area overall
quality as very strong price predictors
these features should be emphasized on
the predictive models however this is my
inference you must go ahead and try out
because there a lot of features I want
you to go ahead and try out that what
features might be possibly the strong
predictors of sale price right and then
the data distribution the positive skew
of the sales price and the wide range
values of ground living area overall
indicate the need of careful data
processing which means that it does not
follows a proper normal distribution
which is needed for the regression
algorithm right so we need to do the
very nice transformation or
normalization of our data another one is
outliers so outliers in this
relationship between ground living area
and sale price needs to be examined
closely because again uh we do not want
our model to not address this luxury
home so we want to also make sure that
this has taken inside the data and model
is learning from it so I hope that this
makes sense now we go to the last part
of our uh analysis which is multivariate
analysis so let's catch up that up in
the next one we'll get started with
multivariate analysis which is the last
part of our analysis program and uh so
let's quickly go to multivariate
analysis and it is pretty simple again
it is it follows the same strategy
pattern or sorry a template pattern into
this so it defines the template for
performing multivariate analysis out
here and sub classes we can override
specific steps like correlation and
stuff like that in order to increase it
so multi analysis will involve two
things which which we'll be doing we'll
be doing generate correlation and
generate pair plot because it is not
technically possible to do you by
variate by looking at so it pair plot
generates the overall summary of
whatever happens with the features how
they engage with them what is the
correlation between them and all those
things which is needed so that's why I
love this uh pair plot and heat Maps
will tell me everything which is needed
what is the correlation involved with
each of these features with all the
combinations out there
so I'll create an interface then
interface will look like this that this
will have an method called analyze and
then analyze will simply perform a
comprehensive multivariate analysis by
generating a correlation heat map and
pair plot so it takes in the data frame
whatever needs to be analyzed and there
turns nothing
because why it's because maybe it me the
method Orchestra because the it's more
about orchestrating the correlation and
then that's it there's no returning out
here now we create the generate
correlation by giving so generate
correlation is another abstract method
and the generate payLo is another
abstract method which we have to
overwrite so we create first of all we
do the simple multivariate analysis
there's nothing we we will do very very
complex we'll start with the heat map
first of all we'll generate a
correlation heat map by giving the data
the size will be 12 x 10 and you just
take out the correlation of it by core
and annotation to cmap equals to cool
warm all of this you can get to know as
SNS do heat map you'll you'll be knowing
each and everything what does it mean
what does each parameters mean and what
do they expect in return so I want you
to look at the document too if you want
to know more about the in detail and
what sort of things can be involved into
this as a parameter the title
correlation heat map and then PLT do
show so it generates so now on on
another pair plot we could say that okay
we need to generate the pair plot so SNS
do pairplot we just give the data frame
it will automatically generate the pair
plot for the selected features whatever
which is mostly the numerical feature
which will be selected
so this is what the multivar we import
the multivar analysis and then we go
ahead into doing this so we simple
multivar analysis which we import if you
truly see in the top we have imported it
is from multivariate analysis analyze.
Source multivariate we should import the
simple mered multi analysis and then
what what we do we simply uh select the
features because we just want to get the
for these seel selected features which
numerical features and then we analyze
those selected feature because that will
select the selected features out there
so this is what to make it more simpler
and understand you can also change the
selected features to make sure that you
truly understand other features too now
over here if you truly see if I could
explain you what do really mean all
these
um uh scatter plot and all so the pair
plot shows five variables into this
which is the sales price ground living
area overall quality total basement
square footage and ear buil and each row
and column each row and column let's say
this one represents the relationship
between one of these variables which is
relationship between the variables of
sale price and the sale price right so
it will be possibly same for for the
sale price with a ground living area is
0.71 right so that's what it means the
diagonal which you're seeing everyone
one it shows the distri which is like
more sort of a 100% correlated because
sale price is exactly sale price ground
living area is exactly ground living
area so the the com the correlation
between them is 100% but the correlation
between sales price and uh uh ground
living area is 0.71 right so um all
these things out here you get the
correlations and stuff like
that so say the scatter plot between
sales price and ground living area shows
a positive relationships which we have
seen and the living area ground living
area what is positive relation if that
increases If X increases then y also
increases this suggests that larger
houses tend to sell for more prices same
goes with sales price versus overall
quality so scatter plot between sorry um
the heat map which which which which is
over here suggests that you know more
the better the quality is better the
sales more the sales sales price are so
just to come to this uh blue colors
represents the negative or low
correlations meaning that variables are
not highly correlated which also means
that they're inversely
related and red color means that there
is a highly positive correlations
meaning that variables are highly
correlated with each other so what does
it mean one indicates the perfect
positive correlation that they perfect
positive correlation which means that as
one variable increases the other all
increases at the same time so S price
increases the sales prices also
increases mostly they are same
right minus one indicate the perfect
negative correlation which means that if
one increases then other decreases but
they these are all the the details which
you have already had a talk but coming
to the how do we interpret this so let's
say that um uh sales price so how do we
interpret the sales sales price
correlation of the sales price sales
price has the highest correlation with
overall quality which is 0.80 right now
so if you see overall quality with the
sales price is 0.88 which means that
overall quality tend to have a higher
sales so houses with better overall
quality tend to have higher sale prices
now if you go to the moderated positive
correlation which is the ground living
area or total basement square feet which
is if you truly see total basement
square feet with a sales price
0.63 and then ground living area which
is 0 0.71 which means that larger houses
and houses with larger basements tend to
sell for more but uh the one uh sales
price has a moderate correlation with
the ear buil for example 0.56 that's
what we call as a moderate correlation
not mod moderate positive correlation
but it is moderate correlation which
means that house that suggest new houses
tend to sell for more and that that
builds a good story right for that will
also help your uh stakeholders to better
understand same goes with like let's say
ground living area so ground living area
suggests a moderated positive
correlation with sale price as we see
0.71 it also has a moderate correlation
with overall quality indicates that
larger living areas tend to be
associated with higher quality homes
again be very careful when I say this so
what I say this that ground living area
if you compare that with overall quality
which suggest which is 0.57 into this
case which says that which says a very
interesting Insight that larger living
areas tend to be associated with higher
quality homes that's one of the Insight
now if you say that there's a low
moderate correlation with total basement
square feet and a low correlation with
ear build which means it does not
affects the sales price and all those
things so just like this you can
interpret for other um uh correlations
and make make sure you build a story
line out of it I've already built a very
nice story line I want to look at the
pair plot scatter plot story which I've
written out here you can write it in
more detail now this is what we this is
the scatter plot which we have I want
you to understand it so pair plot shows
for again the selected features and uh
the diagonal plot the diagonal plot
shows the distributions of each variable
whatever the variable which which we are
having now let's try to interpret one
one by one I'll I'll not do everyone but
I'll try to interpret one one by one so
let's say sales price to ground living
area right so scatter plot between the
sale price and the ground living area
looks something like this which shows a
linear relationship so it says that it
increases then the sales price also
increases same goes with the overall
quality so now if you go to the overall
quality and the sales price this scatter
Plus shows overall a positive
correlation positive correlation which
means that houses with higher quality
tends to be more expensive now if you
truly see this total B basement square
fet footage which says that the scatter
plot shows again a postive relationships
but it is less strong compared to ground
living area and overal cor so these two
are more important than this so if there
is a data issue then you remove this
instead of removing this so all of this
is uh helping you out earb built so
shows that uh newer houses tend to have
a better housing price right um same
goes with other if you truly see that's
how you can interpret other
relationships and stuff like that that
over here Itself by choosing right you
know what is the correlation if it is
positive negative um I mean inversely
directly whatever you just need to
figure it out by your own it is very
easy to understand so I took you some
example you can look at the pair plot
which is listed out here answers to it
the the the nice stuff which you can see
over
here now what needs to be addressed
multicolinearity feature engineering and
outliers so for example over quality is
an ordinal which might benefit from it
so we just need to encode those overall
we do not want to treat overall quality
because it just ranges from 1 to 10
values so to ensure that this is more
sort of a ordinal value rather than the
continuous value another one is lock
transformation because sales price is
positive sched and regression accepts
that uh accept some normalization so we
need to work on that there are a lot of
outliers too so we need to work on that
too multicolinearity as I said that
lineation expects that you need to have
a uh normal distributed I mean variable
so these three are the issues which we
will address into our next set of
lectures so now we have analyzing done
we'll go towards this
particular injes um feature engineering
we'll work towards handling missing
values and then data splitter model
building outly detection evaluator and
then we convert those things into zml
pipeline because we'll be once once we
complete the understanding of these you
have done Co ml and then we'll go ahead
and try to integrate mlops into it so I
hope that it makes sense we'll catch up
in the next
one hi so finally we are going to get
started with making pipelines making
steps actually model building and lot of
things after whatever we have concluded
from our insights because as I told that
we'll take another hour to finish this
project but our one hour just got spent
onto analytics which will make super
easy for us to take decisions on what
sort of methods we need to use what sort
of plan we should have so that helped us
to plan our future thing together so
that is why I love working on to uh
analysis a lot because as a data
scientist it is your work to spend a
good a good set of time into working on
it so before going to that I want you to
first of all go into the uh zml document
and zml document is a very nice document
and now they have made it simpler
because when I was iens nml I think
things were little uh I mean messy and
they were still at developing stage and
the core stage but now they have
developed a lot and have explained the
envelops Paradigm in a way that nobody
could ever even touch so that's why I
always refer to whatever I can and
that's where we we going to use ziml and
I hope that you have followed our PDF
document because please ensure it will
not work if you have not followed our
installation video so I hope that you
have your installation video ready and
that in installation video should have
your zml installed your stack set up
with MLF flow experiment tracker and ml
flow deployment and everything should be
ready into that so that I do not so so
that you don't get error because once
you start getting error you'll start
scratching your head and you won't get
anywhere so let's get let's let's go get
going ahead and over here I want you to
first of all um if if you don't know
about ziml come here learn whatever you
can about what is the concept of pip
what is the concept of Step but I'm
going to touch this in a very briefly
basis and what I could do is I could
possibly help you understand what is
pipelines and what is steps are so
pipelines is like a pipelines um so kind
of a series of steps so uh you should
first of all start with ingesting the
data then you should process the data
then you should handle the missing
values then then you should handle the
outliers then you should hand so it's
kind of a stepbystep or rtion so that's
what pipeline means pipelines means you
make a pipeline in that you have
stepbystep procedure to follow right so
into this right right in case of my
front you have inut then profiling and
then train and then go and evaluate and
all that happens under the ziml pipeline
so so I I don't I don't want to go on
artifacts models parameters and all
because I want you to look at it but the
concept known as local stack so local
stack what does it mean that over here
we'll be using ml FL so I'll also tell
you I'll come back to this stack once
again but over here we'll be using ml
flow for tracking our experiments and ml
flow for deployment and you want to tell
zml that I'm going to use that right so
local stack will have or Python
orchestrator and artifact store but also
experiment track to be ml you want to
indicate those into your stack so all of
this is very important so we'll I'll
come back to Stacks once again so that
you understand it but I before I want
you to look at it and be very com
comfortable with what this Pipeline and
steps are you can continue with this
lecture but I want you to be very
comfortable with what these pipelines
and stacks all these things are okay so
now let's go ahead uh what I what I want
to do is uh uh go ahead and then start
off with the planning now of the
pipeline so I want you to go to the
training pipeline so create a pip
pipeline folder and go to the training
Pipeline and the training pipeline
forget all the Imports we go back go one
one by one okay into this you create
atate pipeline using a pipeline
decorator and then over here you want to
import model so model is which means
that we going to create a model into
this into into this pipeline whose name
is be prizes predictor model right so we
create a unique model so that anyone
anyone can access the whole pipeline we
are just we are just just prizes
predictor um name so that's what I want
you to first of all write it out over
here of course it is that you import
from zml the model Pipeline and step and
then you use that model and then name
that as a price predictor so if you
could go and check it out it's kind of
the model which so that you in a
pipeline you have you're having a model
known as prices predictor so we'll
create a pipeline definable Pipeline and
this is an endtoend machine learning
pipeline so any pipeline will have its
first step as I what I talked it's about
data ingestion step so we have already
looked at the data ingestion step if you
go to the source file and then go to
ingest data. Pi you've already completed
this ingest data in detail now we need
to convert this inest data into a ziml
step so how do we do this we just go
ahead and say that from source. inest
data we want to import the ingest data
Factory because Factory is where um you
can switch your extensions and then say
file extension whatever file extension
right now we are dealing with zip file
so we say dotzip and then we say get
data ingestor which is and give the file
ingestion and then it ingest so we just
did this will act as a function which
will take a file path as an input and
then we'll give the file path for to
ingest and then it Returns the data
frame so you can see file path is string
pandas data frame as an output now we
see the pipeline we raw data is equals
to data We call we just import from
steps this this is a step folder we
import data inje step from the data inje
step file so you give the file path and
it takes the do zip because it is an
extension and it calls do ingest and
then it inest and then it gets the raw
data window it now the next step which
we want to have is H how do we handle
missing values into it how do we handle
missing values because we have seen
there a lot of missing values in 2 hours
so we need to also handle the missing
values so we have done with the injest
data we'll go to the handle missing
values do PI which is the source where
all the logic has been
written now I'll go step by step so that
you understand it very in detail now
first of all we set we import the loging
logging is where is it it it is a module
to display log messages because you can
zml sometimes some Zen zml you cannot in
the pipeline you cannot have print
whatever you should have the logging
system ready right because logging is
what zml uses it and there are other
like print Ln and all so the logging
module is configured to display log
message with specific format for example
we want to ensure ASC time what is the
level name log which is the log message
log level and what is the message what
what what what was the tracking so that
it helps you in a debugging so that's
where the configurations were set now
then you create an abstract Base Class
that defines an interface for handling
missing values that's what we are trying
to do right so it uses the ABC you know
module which is abstract based classes
to enforce that any subass must
implement this particular handle so the
reason why we have this so that any
subass which extends this must implement
the handle so missing values is kind of
an interface now if you go ahead
um it takes now this handle will take a
data frame as an input and we'll return
a data frame with missing values handled
the first strategy which we are having
is dropping missing values so it
inherits the missing values and if
there's anything additional to take it
they take it and what X's it needs to
have for
example uh over here it defines whether
to drop rows or whether to drop columns
so that's what ex's is needed because we
want to know whether to drop rows or
whether to drop columns in this case we
want to drop rows that's why X is equal
to zero and threshold which means that
the minimum number of a non non values
requir to keep the row and column so if
the row / columns with fewer than thresh
values the non non values are going to
be
dropped
okay so these are the AIS and thresh and
then you create because it is mandatory
to have the handle it's a logging doin
for dropping missing values with access
and the threshold DF cleaned uh drop now
you get the access and threshold you
give because you have already taken as
an input and then you say login. info
missing values are dropped and then you
return the DF clead there's another
strategy there's another strategy which
we which is concrete strategy for
filling of the missing values so this
class implements the handle method to
fill missing values using various
methods either by mean median mode or
any value which you which you would like
which which we which is known as the
constant value which you want you can
also put constant value 10 11 12
whatever you want but the default is
Method we want to use is mean and fill
value is equals to none right we we
instantiate that thing method and fill
fill value and then we make the handle
class so handle class is made as
following that we first of all copy the
data and if method is equals to mean
then you select the data types that you
get only the numerical columns and then
what you
do uh and then you particularly go ahead
and then fill the null values of that
particular numeric columns with the mean
of that column okay same goes with
median and same goes with Mo so and if
you have the constant then you fill the
N values with whatever because it is
none right now nothing will be filled if
you put I mean constant then you have to
put some something in here otherwise the
value will be none so it will it either
fills with mean it either fills with
median or it FS with Mo or with a
constant and if this anything comes if
this another metod somebody passes then
it says missing values sorry unknown
method no missing values handled and
then it says missing values filled
that's what it helps you in debugging
that every you log every messages of it
and then what you do you simply have the
context class which we usually do so the
class maintains a reference to a missing
value handling strategy which is a
strategy that we are that we have
created an interface for and then and
delegates the task of handling missing
values to it it allows switching between
the different strategies dynamically so
you can set the strategy and execute
that strategy which is handle many
missing values which is do handle so you
set so that you don't have to
reinstantiate again and again to make
this work right so this is an example
usage that we take a data and then we
say missing values you want to drop
missing values so you just simply call
DF clean. handle now you want to drop
missing values you want to follow the
mean method to fill the missing values
which is you set the strategy and then
you follow the mean method and then do
handle and then you give the data and
then you get the DF fil so this is an
example usage what we're going to do we
going to convert this into a step which
is the handle missing values
step so handle missing values will have
this following we first of all import
Panda SPD from source. handle missing
values we import drop missing values
fill missing values and missing values
Handler which is an abstract class and
then what it does that it takes data
frame as an input and what sort of
strategy is to have the default one is
mean you can overrided by median mode
constant and then it says if the
strategy is equals to drop then missing
value Handler will take drop missing
values as an strategy and then possibly
give that you need to only drop rows and
then it starts to drop rows but if the
strategy is mean median mode constant
then it's then you call the abstract
class and then you say I want to fill
missing value strategy with a method of
strategy and strategy which you have
taken is an input which is the meaning
to this case or else you raise value
errors unsupported missing value
handling strategy right and then
whatever Handler is there you just
handler. handle missing values by giving
it to the DF and then you get the clean
DF out from here so then once you have
this you simply go into training
pipeline which you have created and then
fill data and then you pass in just the
raw data so how it works you simply go
you pass in your data frame because
strategy is mean you want you don't want
to change it so you keep live it on mean
and then it goes to your abstract class
then abstract class sets the strategy of
filling mean values with mean value and
then that executes with mean whatever
the code logic we have written and
Returns the data frame with filled mean
values I hope that it makes sense it is
pretty simple to understand it just that
it is a way to do it I love this space
and probably I love the way it works out
and then now let's run it so the way you
can run it is you can just go ahead and
then call python run pipeline right so
what it does I just need to fix up some
of some of the warnings because I'm
using some sort of unsupported uh zimal
behaviors and
all so what happens that initiates a new
Run for the pipeline ml pipeline the new
model versions was created and it says
models can also viewed in the dashboard
and all so because I said that I use a
stack of local wheel to I hope that you
have read the do doent on setting up
this project first so please set up the
project first before continuing this is
the dashboard URL if you truly click on
it you'll be seeing this dashboard and
it says data inje step has started and
then it outputs a code data frame and
then it goes to handle missing value
step and it outputs a core data frame to
right and then it says data inje step
has started because I've already run it
it says we are using a cache version you
say Ste handle missing has started it's
using a cast version of this too and it
says it has been finished in following
time so we have done with this now the
next step which we're going to do is
we're going to do the feature
engineering which is lock transformation
to make sure that we things are
normalized and then we going to work on
the outly detection step which means
that we'll detect if there's in outliers
and handle those outliers and then we'll
split the model into training testing
and test split and then we train the
model and then we evaluate the model
that's it so that is the pipeline which
we are looking at so let's come back in
the next one to talk more about feature
engineering and outlier detection
step so hi everyone uh let's come back
to our project and the project indicates
that we have completed till handle
missing value step now we have also seen
that there are that our Target variable
sales price were skewed positively
skewed so we have to normalize it there
are several other issues like outlier
detection and handling and all those
things has to be taken care of so in
into this we'll talk about two things
which is featur engineering and outlier
detection step so let's go to feature
engineering. pi and into this I wanted
to look at this which is we do our
logging stuff same we set our strategy
which is the interface for it where we
we go ahead and then every strategy will
follow a simple step which is applying
the uh which is a base class which
defines a common interface for all our
feature engineering techniques or
strategies and any subass must implement
this apply transformation method right
so there are specific concrete
strategies the lock
transformation uh which is which is a
strategy which is to be skewed features
to normalize the distribution because we
have seen that sales price was positive
skewed skewed so we will what what we
will do we'll try to use lock
transformation also to implement that
and out right so lock transformation can
be used to reduce the cess in the data
which means that if there is um positive
skew or negative skew it can be helped
to skew um reduce the skewness in the
data out there right so what we could
possibly do we could write apply
transformation takes the day data frame
as an input what sort of feature because
we want to indicate we cannot just go
ahead and apply transformation each and
every stuff we want to indicate where
features we which feature we should
apply a transformation on so we apply
the transformation we give in the data
it Returns the data frame in return so
it says we are applying the log
transformations to Features this it
copies and then it starts for Fe feature
in. feature because it is a list um we
should apply log which is by calculating
so I'm log transformation I want to look
at it it's more mathematical thing but
we simply apply the log transformation
on top of it to to to to reduce the
skewness so this is one of the strategy
to handle the skewness and uh
distributions to make it normalized for
our algorithm to work right so another
one is the standard scaling scans
standard scaling which means it
transforms the data to have zero mean
and unit variance so uh the you can
actually use SC scal learn standard
scaler so right now I've just written
this but when we actually do the
modeling we apply log transformation on
the sales Target variable because we
want it to not change it too much but
for standard scaling we'll be using our
uh what do you
say uh in es skarn one to implement this
out which is apply transformation you
apply fit transform on the features
standard scaling get completed Min
minmax scaling same however I've just
shown you for an example that how could
we implement this however I I will not
go in detail about each and every
because it requires one hour another to
explain you also this so I want you to
go and explore minmax zcore sorry Min
minmax and standard scaling these are
everything very easy we have also taught
lot into the pro probability must be
regression lectures um so I wanted to
look at it it is so minmax and short it
helps you to be between 0 to one and
normalizes it for the sake of linear
regression so uh we have so basically
what what we have did we have just for
the numerical we have implemented log
transformation standard scaling and then
minmax scaling for the because we have
also categorical Columns of course we we
are not going to use this thing we are
going to use sarn formal learn thing so
it's more like we're going to apply onto
all the featur which are categorical
right so it's it it concatenates the
transformed because it also first of all
um gets the transformed and then it
drops the columns which are categorical
and impl con concatenates the column
which are encoded so that's what we have
encoded right now by calling fit
transforms and then we get the feature
names out of it to to name the columns
for it right so we have we have used we
have used one hot encoding I hope hope
that you have already known about one
hot encoding we have done that into the
feature engineering part so we do the
one hot encoding and then it gets
completed so the we create a a context
class for feature engineering which
means that it takes the strategy in what
sort of strategy and then switches the
strategy and apply the feature
engineering so let's say that you want
to implement the lock transformation so
lock transformation is where we say
feature lock Transformer feature
engineer put in lock transformation what
for sort of features we want to these
two features and then you run that you
run the same for scaling for Min minm
scaling and for one hot and coing so
this is an example usage but for our
thing what we will do we will simply go
to the training Pipeline and just apply
lock transformation to these two
features which is ground living area and
sale price because they were skewed um
you can also encode the values however
I'll show you a different way to run
feature engineering because I'm not
going to do encoding right now I'm going
to do encoding little
later but now the next step is now we
have the numerical columns how do we
detect an outlier and handle it that is
another big question which we should ask
so if go to the outlier detection do PI
and same happens over here that you
import necessary libraries and then you
create an abstract class which will have
which you must have this detect outliers
which will take data frame as an input
and return data frame as an
input so we first of first first of all
we will recognize and then we will
handle these these two things which we
will do at uh right now so over here if
you truly see zcore so first of all we
we going to implement the zcore so in a
nutshell zcore outli detection is a
statistical method which we use to
identify outliers in a data set so which
means that we use the concept of
standard deviation to determine how far
away a data point is from the mean of a
data set so zcore is nothing but to and
to know if there is a x data point how
far is that away from the mean so if
that is too far which means that it is
an outl but if it's too close which is
good right so we we given an threshold
so we if a data point zcore whatever Z
scod we have appointed is beyond a
certain threshold like way then your
mean then it is considered and as an
outlier so I don't want to go again deep
into maths but the zcore of zero
indicates that a data point is exactly
is at the mean so what I could tell um
and the zcore of one indicates that a
data point is one standard deviation
above the mean so one standard deviation
above the mean whatever standard
deviation your variance you
have then you have the further the zcore
from zero is the more unusual the data
point is considered and then you can
have that particular threshold in order
to determine how when based on your
business
rules so what I'm going to do is uh I'm
going
to have a particular threshold
so usually the thresholds um so you say
uh thresholds are three so if um the
usual threshold which we have is either
2 2.5 or three it depends on how hard
you can handle right so I'm going to
push out one of the example one of the
data example the way it works out so
over here if you see this is a sale
price and the zcore for the sales price
isus 0.75 95 so it is below that mean
but it is 1 point so all these are
outlines because our threshold is
three but as soon as we set our
threshold is one because we are too
sensitive towards having an outlier then
this will become true because this is an
outlier so this is what we we this is
what the zcode does if you want to know
more detail I want you to do your
research by your own and probably um get
things sorted on this part now the same
goes with IQR out we have another
strategy for detection which is IQR outl
detection which outl detection takes in
a data frame and then figure outs using
the IQR so I method is again same like a
box plot so if any data points is above
the viscus above the viscus that's where
what or below the viscus that's that's
what the out outliers are so how could I
explain you if I could simply say IQR
outlier
detection and uh if I could show you
this is the way so over here this is
where this is the median this is the q1
this is the Q2 and this is all this whis
this whisker all the points around this
whisker not out Li but all the points
Above This whisker and all the points
below this whisker out out out lies the
lower fence and upper fence which we
known as right so and things which
Beyonds or below your lower fence and
upper fence are outliers that's what the
you know out IQ or outly detection means
that we detect if they are above or
below that
viscus right so this is another strategy
for IQ outl detection this is one for Z
using zcore and then we create a context
class that detect protects the outliers
and handles it so we first of all set
this we asked the strategy what strategy
which you want to use and then we set
the strategy by making that method and
then we detect the strategy by calling
detect outliers by calling the detect
outliers from these methods and then we
handle outliers the way we handle the
outliers if the method is removed we
remove the outliers by calling DF doall
we just remove it all the outliers from
that particular column and then if the
method is capping so what does capping
mean means capping means that I just
want to don't don't want to go in very
detail but in a in in a nutshell let's
say this is your data frame which is
sales price and gr live area so now this
is far away from this right this this is
this seems like an outlier right so what
it does if that is an outlier it will
change the value of that outlier to
a
nearest data point which is not an
outlier okay so over here it converts
that 2 lakhs to one lakhs right uh
10,000 to 4,000 so that's that's what
the capping means into the U C capping
outlier so we also tell what sort of
quantites we should have the upper and
the minimum so that if anything goes
beyond it it looks out for the lower one
if anything goes above it it looks out
for upper one what is the nearest one to
it and then it just changes the
value right so this is what the outly
detection is and then you simply go to
the training Pipeline and then you clean
the data out light reduction step you
give the engineered data and then the
column name is nothing but the sales
price because that's where we want to
look at
it so I hope that it makes sense now the
next step is data splitting and uh then
model building so you must you must be
noticing why we haven't done any such um
encoding right now encoding we will
directly do into the model building step
because that's where we could um I'll
tell you why the reason when when when
we do the model building step because it
it is a big big reason to T about that
but before going to that let's go ahead
and then run this data splitting too so
data splitting because we need to split
the data I don't want to explain it
because we have already done a lot it's
just that because we want to also test
our model whether it is performing good
or not because if we truly train our
model every data then if it just ask the
same questions then it already knows it
will perform obviously better so we just
split the data into training and testing
set and then we first of all train the
data train the model on those training
set and then test the test the model on
those training set testing set so if we
go to the
um so if I could show you the feature
engineering step it says that if the
strategy is logging you uh if we create
that feature engineering step it takes
the data frame as an input the strategy
the features list if there's anything
needs to be there if the feature list is
none then you say raise an error right
if the strategy is log you put in log
strategy standard scaling if the
strategy is one H you do one H and then
you return your transformed stuff and
then outli detection step so it
says received a non-type data frame so
we are saying that the data frame should
be must it should expect a pandas data
frame then then when it will work it
should make sure that a column is
present in that particular data frame
and then it selects the numerical
columns from that and then it starts the
outly detection and returns out and
handles those outliers and it returns
out the DF clean it is self-explanatory
I don't want to go in very great great
detail because that's what we have done
right now is very simple it just create
conversion step and then call those
functions and methods and classes over
here to make this turns out we using
zcore outly detection into this case now
once we have that done we go to this
data splitter so which means that it
will return data Frame data frame series
series X train X test y train y test
and yeah so uh over here you call the
from zml and then import data splitter
and then simple train test split so if
you go to data splitter we again try to
make this very nice is create an
abstract class split the data because
there a lot of things might be coming
what must be the test size you simply
creates the concrete strategy by having
s. test size random State and split the
data into the following stuff and then
you create a concrete class for that by
setting the strategy and splitting by
calling that stuff up data splitter step
you call that thing and then you say
strategy should be simple train to split
if this anything complex you need to if
you can just extend that abstract class
to more complex strategy and then you
simply call that do split and then you
give Target column and the DF it Returns
the X train X test y train and Y test
now let's try to save it and we run
it
perfect so let's go ahead
head very nice so here you have data
injection outputs it output something
featur ring their data splitter steps
output these four answers which is good
enough this is output one this is output
zero this is output one this is output
two and this is output three which is
correct good so we are done with the
data splitter and the next one which we
going to focus on is building the model
and then evaluating the model and then
we'll be mostly done with our system um
mostly hopefully and then we go ahead
and deploy the model and uh possibly
what do you say uh test our model on top
of it all right and then we mostly
finish our project so let's go jump onto
the model building stuff so now now we
come to the model building part which is
one of the most I think I like this part
too and uh probably where I spend a very
less my time into model building because
I spend most of my time into analysis
structuring processing and then because
model building then becomes very easy
for me so we import B whatever libraries
so linear regression pipeline from a
skill learn so this is one one of one of
the thing which I will talk on why we
are importing these two but uh this
regression mix in is the type of the
model which linear regression trains and
then when it is when it comes down when
when you call do fit it returns this
regressor mix in so we set up the
configurations for logging and then we
create an abstract class so abstract
class is where your model building
strategy comes to the play that we want
to that abstract class must be having
build and train model method and any of
the sub classes which it it will have
so X train is the panda data frame and Y
train is the P data frame and it should
return the regress and mixing which is a
trained psychic learn model instance not
the untrained one right so you create a
concrete class first of a linear
regression strategy so you train the
model first by taking two inputs X train
and Y train and then you ensure and then
it Returns the pipeline so what it does
first of all we want to make sure that
the both are the correct types a data
frame and a series so once it's there we
start that hey we are starting up with
linear regression model and then what we
do we create a pipeline with a standard
scaling and a linear regression what
does it the standard scaling means if
you have seen I have only did scaling to
two two numerical features I not done to
all so to make things easy for me for
this project I'm going to use Simple
standard scaler which is feature scaling
which we have also implemented the same
and then standard scaler helps you to
have the zero mean and unit variance I
want you to learn learn about it so I'm
going to use that very simply for other
features out there whatever other
features I have I want to use standard
scaling which is what as standardly
however you can go ahead and experiment
it out with minmax scaling and other set
of scaling based on the context but for
this context standard scaling works the
best then the standard so now let's say
that you do not then then you train the
model so this is the pipeline start with
a standard scaler and then linear
regression model pipeline. fit and then
return the pipeline which is the trained
sarn instance now why now you may ask me
hey aush why we need to have standard
scaler just why can't we first of all
scale it differently and then train the
model differently now let's say you give
the Y train you give the Y train right
so you give some testing example so that
has to be also scaled to whatever your
linear regression has learned onto that
scaling so let's say that if this linear
regression has learned your scaling onto
the scaling of this only this can help
right if you applied new scale you
instantiate a new class a new um
standard scaler then it might scale that
to differently and model will lead to
very differently it's a very logical
thing right so if even any samples comes
in the trained whatever standard scaling
which is trained on linear regression is
trained on they do that stand scaling on
that one okay so we call this do fit and
then fit the pipeline so it starts with
stand scaling and linear regression so
model will first of all go through so if
any input comes in the model will first
scale it down to what it already learn
learned and then it trains and then it
actually predicts the model right do
predict very simple I hope that it is
very simple because it is because it is
very crucial to also understand why I'm
doing it because if you don't do not
understand then you might you I want you
to try out very differently you'll try
to think Lo logically too that if this
is different then this if if new example
comes in then linear regression will
expect the input uh the the input which
was scaled which was feature engineered
by this standard Scala right not from
the different standard Scala from this
only that is why we have to make it in a
pipeline in the
Escalon so the context class for model
building we first of all have the
strategy now you can have multiple
algorithms too you can scale it down to
polinomial regression you can scale to
L2 L2 regression a lot of things which
you can do it scale it down uh because
that that will also be your assignment
also because you you you'll have to work
onto these several other algorithms
compare it make a proper report so all
those things will be given as an
assignments to the students out there
now if you go ahead you can simply go
ahead and the strategy which you have to
follow which is the model building the
the type of the strategy would be the
because this is the subass of the model
building strategy the type of would be
the model building strategy so you set
the strategy of whatever and then you
build the model by calling the build and
train model method and that's it that's
pretty much it now you go ahead model
building and then you simply go ahead
and create the step out of it this is
again one of now we are also doing lot
of things over here in model building
step so we'll be also using ml flow now
so we'll be doing ml flow integration so
again I'm going to say you please make
sure that your stack so if you do ZL
stack
describe it should look something
similar to this
which is your orchestrator should be
default one experiment tracker would be
ml4 tracker and model deploy should be
ml flow prices and the artifact store
should be default so this this this
should be your stack then only ml flow
will
work so over here we are going to import
ml flow import pandas SPD we are going
to import the regressor mixing because
we want to indicate what the output will
come and then these two I'll explain you
in a bit right and the pipeline one out
encoder and things like that
so over here what I have done is I have
not used the model building from this
file because of several reasons of
course I want you to use it you can use
it for sure but I just wanted to have it
over here only so of course you can just
change that fit to some something else
but uh but I I want to work through my I
want you to work through my decision
process so my decision process was that
the reason why I didn't use that because
the pipeline over here involved couple
of couple of more things I can also do
it over here but over there I want to
also save this save that as an artifacts
I don't want to just save it over here I
want to save that as an artifact you can
also do over here both will make sense
but most probably I done done done it
over here to just save it as an artifact
that's it there was no intention behind
me to again you know do not use that
model building and come over here so of
course I can also delete that if if I if
I want because that that does not helps
now I wanted to first of all ignore this
all these things right now just come to
this over here if you if you remember in
our PIP plan we have said model equals
to price predictor that's here we
instantiate about what the model is so
model price predictor what is the
license of it the description of it with
price prediction model for the houses
and then this is the unique name to
identify anywhere right you can just
call this price predictor you'll be
getting all the artifacts and stuff like
that directly into the pipeline now we
say that enable cache equals to false
because as you have seen that it was
using my caches experiment tracker I
will come back to this in in a bit now
it takes in X train and Y train and then
it returns in pipeline which is a
trained pipeline which first of all
scales the value transforms The Columns
and stuff like that and Returns the es
skillon Pipeline and and Returns the
skill on Pipeline and we say that is
model artifact yes it is then out output
of the particular
step that's what the artifact config
means artifact config means that we
indicate whatever output is coming is an
artifact please remember it because we
will'll be using it to train and predict
our model use this to predict and or
infer our
model so first of all we ensure things
and then we because if if you have
noticed we have still not converted our
categorical columns using one heart why
because I wanted to do it here because I
want it to be an artifact config so
categorical columns we select the data
types for categorical and then for
numerical as the
same if you can see include object
exclude object then what I do I simply
if so some sometimes what happens what I
usually see sometimes when doing stuff
we end up creating Nan values all by
ourself so we make sure even though this
may not make sense we can also remove it
but we make sure if any by chance
anything comes into play you just do
simple imputer which is impute the
missing values with the mean of it right
we have didn't we have did handle
missing values but if by chance anything
happens then you simply impute with the
mean because I I always like to be safe
and then the pipeline looks looks like
this over here we impute first of all
from the simple imputer which is the
strategy which is the most frequen is
the mean into this case and then we one
hot encode it one hot encoding means I
hope you already know because it is bit
of
of uh work to say but here here's what
it means that says ID one red two blue
three green so red is being created
color red and then if it is there then
it says one either 0 so some that that
is what the one 10 10 coding is that it
creates a separate column so it
increases the features complexity by
creating new columns for that particular
unique variable and then say and then
use a zero or one to indicate whether
that is there or not
right so that's what one hot en coding
is and then we say and then what we do
we actually have this column Transformer
so what does column Transformer means
column Transformer means that we use a
pipeline of simple imputer and one hot
encoder in order to um combine numerical
and categorical Transformers so over
here you have if you have seen one one
part is that numerical Transformers
where we are where we using this to
impute missing values from mean and
there's a categorical Transformer which
is the U for the categorical variables
imputing with the most frequent values
which is the median right now and sorry
mode right now and one heart to change
from the English to numeric format and
then we want to run this together so
that's what the pre-processor means the
column Transformer the Transformer it
will run the combines the numerical and
categorical corers together
to make the column Transformer so this
allows steps to be applied to different
subsets of the data all together
together and then what and then what we
do we simply Define the pipeline the
pipeline is first of all this is the
pre-processor that you first of all get
through the numerical one and then the
categorical one and then you train and
then you have the model of it and then
what you can do you can simply go ahead
and log the info saying that pipeline.
fit which is the pipeline which you have
created so it first of all goes through
a numerical columns and then categorical
columns and then it applies all whatever
pre-processing steps and then it fits
the model on top of it and then trains
the model and then uh because see
because the categorical features will be
lot so if you print right now you'll be
having a lot of categorical features
just like this color colored so we want
to know what my model expects we want to
know what my model is going to expect so
after training it logs so by this we
just get the feature names out of it
which is the get feature names out of
the categorical columns which has been
trained on it logs the column that the
model expects which means that it is
very helpful for understanding the input
required by the model after processing
especially when using the one hot en
coding because then you can I'll I'll
tell you why it why why it is helpful in
in a bit because we also want to know
what what columns which my models is are
expecting so um which are the columns
which they have used to train our model
on now that is one thing another thing
is that we also want to do the
experiment of everything like we run on
this and then we let's say we change
this to mean to median so that becomes
another experiment right so we want to
also track the previous one and right
one and compare it we change this to
another strategy we actually use some
sort of zcore and um do something
interesting over here so whatever we
could do so we want to also extract
every run which which we are doing
right so over
here what we will do we will simply call
from zml do client import client which
means that that it instantiates the get
the active experiment tracker from the
zml right now ml flow is the activ um
which is from there so that's what we
get because we have also it gets active
experiment tracker and it says that we
in enable cach equals to false in the
step decorator and experiment tracker is
equals to experiment tracker. name name
which we have instantiated the name of
the active and the model which we are uh
training from this is the model this is
the price predictor so that your your
system is aware because when when we do
the deployment this is very important to
know where what model should I go ahead
and deploy so prizes predictor is the
model which I should go ahead and
deploy right so it says that if there's
any current run ml flow is currently
running please stop it right of course
uh please sorry if there's no current
runs then start the Run starts it starts
a new ml flow run if this already not
running and then it we use MLF flow has
an lot of there lot of available good
features but currently we'll be using
escalar do autolock features so what it
does it automatically captures the model
Matrix parameters artifacts inputs
everything it and then it shows into you
you into the dashboard so what I'm going
to do and finally we end the Run once
the things are completed I'm going to go
ahead and show you this in life so the
training pipeline we have um model
building step over here we we split the
data model building step over here I I I
don't I don't want to go to model
evaluation step I just let's go to model
building step right now and also you can
see that it that price is predictor
because it says that your model which we
are which we want to deploy is the
prizes predictor one we simply go and
run the pipeline so the Run pipeline
will look like this so I'm going to just
cop uh un uncomment this so that you get
the U URI now I'm going to to run this
to show you
sorry how it
helps let's wait I just hope that no new
errors comes
in perfect so it says that your model
evaluation Matrix is following your mean
square error which is very low Square
which is very low it also model expects
the following column you you must be
noticing that it had dropped most of the
columns who are not relevant in a in
outly detection so numerical columns the
C categorical columns there are no
categoric of course there are some
category columns at that point but we
have just used the numerical columns to
go ahead and train it out model expects
the
following uh numerical stuff
right and then what it does
it's it's simply you can just go ahead
and
uh you can run this mlflow
UI wait a sec let's run this perfect so
now if we run this let's open this and
this is the current one which we ran
which is the ml pipeline I want to go
over here ml pipeline which is just now
which we ran one minute ago we click on
this and that's where you have what is
the tax what is the estimator estimator
name uh logged models the parameters it
is going to have what is the Matrix it
it it is having the model Matrix the
system Matrix the artifacts what are the
artifacts like ml model has been put in
over here um you can see over here what
sort of inputs it it requires what sort
of outputs it gives right uh the pkl
file so that you can use the model to
further make predictions on top of it
now you can just go ahead and see our
previous run too so this is the previous
run so this is how you can track
experiments over here for the for the
pipeline okay so this is how we use ml
flow this was not a very big deal it's
just that you need to put it your little
bit of Mind into model building step and
autol loocks a s single line that's how
that's why I call this zml very powerful
because it helps you to automatically
lock stuff and things which is very help
you can also manually log things if you
want to in ml flow MLF flow.
log perfect so the next step which I
want to focus on is the model evaluator
step which is not so hard um I I will
skim through it very
quickly so what it does it simply
creates an abstract class first of all
for model evaluation strategy it expects
the model the testing set and the
testing for labels
and then it simply goes ahead and
predict the model and then it calculates
the mean square error and the R2 score
and then you can set the strategy now
you simply go ahead and the evaluator
step and uh test make sure that things
are all right and then get the name
steps and then transforms first of all
as I said that if you give this X test
to the model the predictions will be
very bad why because that is not what
the input that input the model expects
model expects the pre-processed input
the scaled input the categorical encoded
input and all those things right so then
it initializes the evaluator with the
regression strategy which is the model
evaluator and then you strategy should
be regression model evaluation strategy
and
then we evaluate by giving we do not
give pre-processor into it we just give
the model because we have already
processed our testing set so we just
give the model from not the
pre-processor and X test process
pre-process not the directly X test and
the Y test of it okay and then it prints
out the mean squ error that's it
so I hope that it makes
sense we simply go to the training
pipeline this is what it looks like if
we call this model evalue trained model
whatever model which we have created and
then it automatically take the model
from it by looking at by pre-processing
first and then the model X test and the
Y test and then finally it Returns the
model so that's it about the whole
training pipeline which we have
completed I want you to look at the zml
dashboard so let's go to pipelines let's
go to ml Pipeline and let's go to this
one the latest one this is what the
whole pipeline it starts from this and
ends on the model evaluator
step perfect now what we will do we will
go ahead and create the continuous
deployment pipeline The Continuous
deployment pipeline which means now we
will deploy our models and then we will
and then once we get that API once the
model is deployed we'll be getting the
local link local API calls which you can
use that to call and make inference from
our deployed model so let's go ahead and
then try that out and see how it works
go to the our final step which is
deployment and inferences of our model
now that is a amazing aspect of zml that
you can literally via some commands some
lines of code you can literally deploy
the model and infer it out from there so
what we will do I will quickly make you
go through some of the steps uh let me
just quickly close all the stuff
y now if you go to the pipelines we have
completed the training pipeline we are
do good we were able to get the ml flow
now I wanted to go through this
deployment pipeline so deployment
pipeline will import ml pipeline Dynamic
importer I'll talk about what this
Dynamic importer model loader and
prediction service and the predictor
means in a bit
but what it does it Imports the pipeline
from the integration from ml flow of
steps it it Imports the ml flow model
deployer steps so it uses the model
deployer step to import that so it is
own ziml written step you don't need to
know the logic behind it if you want to
know then you can go to the zml source
code and try to that's what the ZL tries
to simplify it for you now if you truly
see what happens over
here is it simply goes ahead and then we
make this uh following continuous
deployment pipeline so continuous
deployment pipeline is decorated with
this pipeline decorator which indicates
that it is a zml pipeline and this
pipeline is responsible for training the
following the model and gets the trained
model in return and then deploying it
using the ml FL model deployer step so
it takes three things this is already a
predefined zml step specifically
designed for deploying the models with
ML flow so it says that workers equals
to three what does it this parameter
indicates that there are three worker
processes will be used for serving the
model so if you call any time there will
be three guys who will be always
available for handling multiple requests
simultaneously so it so you're when
serving the model the capacity will be
nice the deploy decision equals to True
which means we want to deploy it that
the train should be deployed or
redeployed whenever the pipeline runs
and the last one is the what model to be
deployed which is the trained model to
be deployed over here so the continuous
deployment pipeline into this ensures
that whatever ml pipeline is run and a
model is trained it is automatically
deployed or redeployed using a ml flow
then we have inference pipeline so
inference pipeline what it does it first
of all loads the batch data so what does
batch data means so we are we using
Dynamic importer I want you to first of
all see the dynamic importer step that
is why we created a sample data for for
for our model to make predictions on
this is the sample data which I've
written that's why I looked at the
numerical The Columns which my model
expects so so that I can make the sample
data you can also take your X test to do
to perform it but I just taken for a
sake of sake and then I converted the
data frame to a Json string because
that's what your P planine accepts so
this is the bash data which I want to
make it for reference and then this is
the now I want to load the deployed
model so this the function out here will
load the deployed model for me from the
pipeline name as continuous deployment
pipeline because this this was
responsible for deploying the model into
the server right and this what was the
step name of it the step name of what
that was ml FL deployer step that that
that is the one who deployed the model
right so let's quickly go to the go to
the prediction service loader and what
does prediction service loader uh
tells so over here you have this
following which is responsible for
loading an existing ml flow predict
ition Services which is already running
because inference is what inference is
making predictions once the model is
trained right so inference is once the
model is trained so it is responsible
for loading an existing MLF flow things
so it expects the pipeline name and and
the step name where the model was used
to so the step is designed to be used
within a zml pipeline so you can
retrieve the prediction service that has
been deployed using ml flow via
zml right so we import following
statements we from zml integ ation we
import this mlflow deployer and then ml
flow deployment service and then first
of all we go ahead and U what these two
things does to first of all give you
Clarity MLF flow deployer is a class
from zml MLF flow integration because
they've already integrated it that
manages the deployment of models using
mlflow and then there's MLF flow
deployment Services which is a deployed
MLF flow model service which handles the
model inference requests once which is
like a more sort of a prediction that it
helps you to make
predictions right now over here if you
go ahead and then try to make you
understand each in every step which
is the function it retrieves an exactive
model prediction service based on the
pipeline name and the step names which
is over there and then we get an active
model deployer so what it does this
method retrieves the active MLF flow
deployer component from zl's active
stack so whatever so that's why I tell
the active stack should should be there
right so whatever stack is there it gets
the active MLF flow deployer which has
been used to deploy the model so this
this is used to manage the deployment
and services so once that is done we we
get our model deployed we get get the
active model deployer now we find the
model which is find model server so this
find model server from model deployer
will look out for existing model
Services MLF flow model Services
deployed by that specific spefic
Pipeline and then in that specific step
name which is a continuous deployment
pipeline ml FL deployer step name right
and then this the the result is being
stored in the existing Services which is
a list of MLF flow deployment service
representing the deployed model Services
right and then we say that if there's
some if if if there's no existing
Services then you say no ml Pro
prediction Services was found if there
is then you return um then you return
the prediction service so if there's an
AC in service then the function Returns
the first service which is the best
model being deployed which can be used
for making predictions now you can use
that do predict this service um out
there right so let's go to our
deployment pipeline once again and
that's where we get our model which is
which is the train model of course we
have to go and train first and then
you'll be running this and then you run
the predictions using that model
deployment so let's go to predictor so
this predictor expects the model which
which is trained on which is which we
get from a previous step which is the
prediction service loader and input data
which is in this case the batch D
Dynamic inputter which you the bat data
it Returns the numpy array of
predictions so it loads out it expects
these columns and then possibly it's
converts that into a data frame and then
it converts the data frame to Json list
for prediction and then it do service.
predict by giving the numpy
array and then it Returns the prediction
which is a set of num
R right so this is what the predictor is
that simply predicts so now we now the
next step is that we want to run this
deployment pipeline which is not so easy
I want to first of all explain you what
this run deployment so this is what the
Run deployment is so let's go ahead and
learn a little bit about what this run
deployment
is let me have a cou of yeah so over
here what we are going to do is we
orchestrate two zml pipelines we run two
zml pipelines one is the continuous
deplo deployment pipeline which trains
and deploys the model and another one is
which uses the deployed model to make
inferences so what we will do um we will
first of all import any Necessary Things
click which if you want to stop our MLF
flow Production service we can just call
this they I don't want to further make
any inferences from the model that is
what stop service will do of course we
won't do it right now we'll import our
continuous deployment Pipeline and
inference pipeline
and then we import and then we import
from zen. Integrations get tracking U so
so that we know where our model is being
deployed right and
then what we will do we will simply go
ahead and then in uh import this um MLF
flow model deploy to to deploy our
models now this is that model name
should be prizes predictor because this
was the model name if you have seen that
we have registered when we were training
the model right so this is the uniquely
way of taking the models in
right now the run this this this this
particular function will orchestrate the
both deployment and inference pipe
processes now let's go ahead and uh try
to get you the answ to it so if stop
service is equals to I
mean uh true which means in in into this
case of course it will be false so we
get the MLF flow deployer stack
component over here so what does it mean
that if the stop service flag is
provided the script attempts to stop the
running of the ml for Production service
and then moves ahead into the training
of the model so mlflow deployer active
model deployer this one particular this
one what it does it retrieves the active
model deployer component from the ziml
so ziml has its own deployer steps so it
takes it from there which is get active
model deployer and then it finds the the
model
server it finds the model server so it
searches for an existing model server
instances based on the pipeline name
pipeline step model name because we
already know that it must be so it is
more like if your thing has already been
not run sorry run then this happens but
for for for the first time this will be
ran so to better make you understand if
the stop service is
um if if the running if the if if the
things are running if it is true uh and
you and you have already T deployed the
model it simply goes and gets the
existing Services that's it by looking
at find model server from this
continuous deployment pipeline deployant
what is the model name and all but if it
is not deployed then it runs the
continuous deployment pipeline that is
what happens in the first time second
time it because the model is already
deployed it will it will not every time
deploy the model right it will fet the
existing services
until unless there's no change in the
code if there's any change in the code
it will run the whole pip
pipeline so continuous deployment
pipeline what it does it runs your
continuous deployment pipeline which
eventually more makes the deploys the
best strained model but if it is already
ran then this script will run and it
finds the best model server sorry uh
best model server based on the pipeline
step and
name now if now we say that we just stop
the existing services for example if the
existing Services is there then we stop
the existing Services which means if any
active model U is found it just stops
the service using existing services so
to make you understand what exactly it
does if the stop service is equals to
true then it stops the service of the
current
model make sense but if it is false most
of the time it will be false then it
will continue like this continuous
deployment pipeline then model deployer
which is MLF flow get active model
deployer it gets active and then it runs
the inference Pipeline and uh very
simple ml4 deploy get active model
deployer it runs the inference Pipeline
and it gets to inspect you can also run
this trat to inspect your experiments
and then it fetches the existing
services with the same pipeline name and
step name and model name so existing
Services which is the trained model
which is deployed now right so this is
the trained
pipeline this is the step where the
model has been deployed to right then
says that the the ml for protection
servic is running locally at as a demon
on the process inference we are
accepting request at this prediction URL
you can go ahead and make your
prediction URL request on top of it in
order to ahead but if you want to stop
the service you can call this stop
service so to summarize for you what we
what we have done if somebody says if
this if it is to stop service then it
first of all fetches any existing
services and stop it but if if somebody
says no Then it Contin by default it is
false it just go ahead and then runs the
continuous it gets the active model
deployer and then once it gets the
active model deployer it runs the
inferences pipeline because the model
has already been trained and it fetches
the existing services to make
predictions by calling by giving it the
name of the pipeline and step name of
the thing where the model has been
deployed and then it gives the
predictions U URL on top of it so lot of
you have a problems in deployment why
because you're not trying to get the
core of it the core of it is very simple
that if there is any change in the code
which zml automatically understands from
its past experiment it will rerun the
whole thing it will rerun and if that um
Matrix is better than your current thing
then it updates the model otherwise it
does
not I hope you're trying to understand
what what I'm trying to tell so this is
the very basics of deployment is very
simple that you train the model first of
all continuous deployment there's any
change it re reruns if the if you want
to stop the
service if you want to stop the service
what happens that it fetches the
existing and it stops the service but if
you don't then it continues running the
continuous deployment pipeline kind of
trains the model deploys the model if
the model is better it shifts if it
makes the Top Model on top of it
and then it runs the inferences pipeline
in inference pipeline what it will do it
will simply go ahead and then find the
existing Services takes out the batch
data and then possibly go ahead and then
runs the service. predict and then it
eventually finds the model server
whatever the model server is and then
you get the U URL from it then then you
can use that URL to send request to it
and then get predictions for your model
which you can further integrate into
streamlet or any other application which
you're building it is as simple as
that okay so now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to run
it
okay but this time I'm going to
run deployment of Pi I hope it just
works because sometimes even to me it
just
skes look
so it says predictor has started started
starting services ml flow deployment
service it start method completed and
now it says you can look at your
experiments over here and then you can
also ml FL prediction server is running
locally as D on process and accepts
inference request at this particular URL
now most of you say that hey I don't I
want to know about how can we integrate
into streamlet I mean it is pretty
simple if you have learned this then
this should be pretty simple that you
call this and then you send request to
this particular URL so I'm going to say
sample predict and what what we do this
is the URL of our ml for Production
Service where our model is being
deployed where our model is being
deployed and then this is the input data
the sample input data uh you can make it
a stream lid by calling all of this
and then you just convert the input data
into Json format you send the post
request to the server and it says if the
response status code is 200 you take the
Json from it and then you print the
prediction R if there is what an error
you print the status code and the
response from it so it's just that
sending the request by following the
right data to it that's it uh you don't
need to you know need another 1 hour
lecture because lot of YouTubers don't
don't focus on uh or create a don't
focus on the core aspect of it they just
focus on deployment on stream deployment
on stream bit can be done by class fifth
student
nowadays I mean you guys are in college
so you should be able to get the API
request URL and then use that to do
something great right you use that to
integrate in some complex stuff but yeah
integrating s stre is not a very big
deal so we just call this sample
predict dopy and here we go
$280,000 if we give these than $280,000
is the pricee of that
house I hope it makes sense to each and
every people and we are done we are done
with everything we are done with most of
the things and I hope this project given
you a sense of understanding of how
things work and how things should work
we have done a lot of things we run and
continuous deployment Pipeline and don't
so what is continuous continuous is more
about if there's any change ziml
automatically understands it right so
it's run a continuous deployment
pipeline that trains and deploys a model
we ran an inference pipeline that
performs batch predictions using the
deployed model we can start or stop the
ml flow model prediction service based
on the comine line options we can also
inspect experiment runs and compare
model performance using the mlflow model
UI which you can run this mlflow UI
backend store whatever over here you can
also see into your zml dashboard and
everything over there too now there is
lot of things to cover there are a lot
of things like e2e batch ETL lot of
things we are coming up with into the
course I want you to look at it we are
done with this project it was a simple
house price prediction While most of the
people do it in just 30 minutes we
complete in hours and get it done very
nicely so I hope you really like this
project hopefully we come to the next
one and uh uh we enjoy things out
here is very simple work is what is the
future scope of work there are lot of
things which could have been done into
the processing steps I want you to
experiment with standard scaling minmax
scaling see how the um how the things
have been performing so I want you to
look at it experiment it out use ml flu
experiment tracker to see the
performance of the model and then I want
you to also focus on testing other
assumptions of it and then seeing the
performance of the model when you fix
those assumptions I want you to also try
out several outline detection things
because these are the core things which
is very very important which you can run
as a sort of an experiment every time so
I wanted to focus on that too another
aspect I want you to also focus on is
the um uh possibly you know trying out
other interesting feature engineering
techniques data processing techniques
new Eda things so that you identify more
of it so lot of things can be done over
here my whole aim was to show you the
core aspect of it and vops aspect of it
now it's on you and how you can use it
to make it the best project right now
this is now this this was not available
on whole YouTube this is not available
on whole YouTube so I want you to take
this as an opportunity do something
great we'll be catching up into the next
project if I ever come across I'll see
you later bye-bye